Source URL: https://transcripts.foreverdreaming.org/./viewtopic.php?t=16822

(playing a tune)
(similar tune playing)
Woman: Now, with text deposit, you can manage your accounts from literally anywhere. You can bank on it. You can bank on us-- Sequoia Liberty.
(music ends)
Okay, yes, they do sound similar.
They're the same song.
Someone stole my song and turned it into a jingle.
(crash in distance)
You said you never played this at a show?
I have a little studio space in Alphabet City.
I do everything there.
But it's soundproofed. When I'm writing, I work alone.
(loud clattering)
Could you just excuse me for a moment?
Watson.
What are you doing?
(sighs) Having worked through the night at various pursuits, I am now attempting to fall asleep.
Obviously.
You familiar with the surrealist works of Salvador Dalí?
Yes, of course I am familiar with Dalí.
Well, we share the same opinion of sleep.
Namely that it is a waste of time.
There may exist, however, a moment at the boundary between working and sleeping which holds some utility. He would use a similar method to catch himself the instant he fell asleep and record glimpses into his subconscious mind.
And I'm trying to train my own subconscious to solve more impenetrable problems.
Though I do realize that from the outside it seems no more pragmatic that a visit to the Delphic Oracle.
From the outside, it makes a lot of noise.
I'm meeting with a client downstairs.
A woman, no? If she's the one playing the guitar, you might want to suggest that a tuning is in order.
Does her case intrigue? Do you require my assistance?
I require a little quiet. That's all.
I shall continue my experiment on a higher floor.
(phone rings)
Captain.
Hey, I've got two detectives from the 3-5 here.
They want to talk to you about a homicide they're working.
Yes, of course. Watson is otherwise engaged, but I can be there in about 30 minutes.
I'll see you then.
Holmes, this is Detective Demps and McShane.
Gentlemen.
Heard a lot about you the last couple years.
Despite my best efforts, I assure you.
How can I help you?
Maria Gutierrez.
She went missing a little over three years ago.
Last week her remains were discovered by a city worker in a vacant lot next to Thomas Jefferson Park. Erosion had partially uncovered the grave. M.E. said she died from blunt force trauma to the head.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Ms. Gutierrez worked in a custodial profession, night shifts, mostly.
You, uh, you saying you knew her?
Certainly not.
The hair on her right forearm is a distinctly lighter shade than that on her left. Um, ammonia and bleach, of course, whiten body hair. Her natural hair color resumes at a line where one imagines she wore rubber gloves.
Her skin tone is also several shades lighter than that of her immediate relatives, indicating a more nocturnal lifestyle.
No, no way. You had to know her.
You indicated that you were familiar with my methods.
Yeah, well, we heard you knew a few tricks.
Not tricks.
You sure you don't know her?
Never laid eyes on her before?
This is not a consultation, it's an interrogation.
So, would you like to tell me why you consider me a suspect?
(sighs) Mm-hmm?
We found this in the victim's purse.
McShane: It's a receipt from a coffee shop two blocks from your residence, dated the day that Maria disappeared.
Want to tell us again how you don't know her?
♪ Elementary 3x16 ♪
For All You Know
Original Air Date on March 5, 2015
Demps: I know what you're thinking.
S. Holmes-- that could be a lot of people.
Maybe there's a Steve Holmes out there, or a Sally.
But we showed it to our handwriting expert at Q-DOC.
I could have saved you the trouble.
I'm the author of that note. There is no doubt.
Oh, then you lied when you said you didn't know Maria Gutierrez.
I did not lie.
I do not recall her face and I have no memory of writing to her.
Demps: You saying you have amnesia?
Of a sort.
During the period in question-- late 2011, when Ms. Gutierrez disappeared--
I was quite addicted to narcotics.
A great variety of them, in fact.
Blackouts were not uncommon.
McShane: And on this night in particular, the 7th of December, 2011?
I do not believe I could be much clearer.
I have no recollection of this woman or anything that might have happened to her.
Guys, it's a note. Received by our Vic the day she disappeared, one your consultant just admitted he wrote.
She was a cleaner, maybe he wanted to hire her.
Before we came here, you said this was a waste of time, you knew your guy.
I do.
Did you know about the blackouts?
You asked for five minutes, I gave you five minutes.
If anything else occurs to my consultant, I'm sure he'll be in touch.
(door closes)
Hey. I realized I needed one of these to cook.
What's wrong?
(short laugh)
Had I not deprived myself of sleep these last few nights, perhaps I would have realized what was happening sooner.
Captain should have told you.
It would have been indefensible for him to show me special consideration.
But he has every confidence that the detectives are wasting their time.
They are.
I wrote that note.
I was without a phone at the time. I used street urchins to bring my correspondence to and fro.
And that makes you a k*ller?
I feel confident that the moral maths of my character would have prevented me from committing a m*rder even in the most altered of states.
However, some of the dr*gs I used during that period made me quite paranoid.
Others caused hallucinations.
The unfortunate truth is that however improbable certain things may be with respect to this crime, nothing's impossible.
It was a few months after Irene.
You thought she was dead.
You were using more.
It began as practical attempt to improve my mental horsepower.
I expected to find connections that others had missed.
But as my failures mounted, so too did my cravings.
And distraction turned to crass dependence.
And so began the downward spiral.
You know we're gonna figure this out.
Well, I've been asked not to interfere.
You say that like you haven't heard it before.
Never been a suspect before.
Besides, we're at a grave disadvantage.
Ordinarily, the police would share their files with us.
We'd have access to evidence, we'd have access to the victim's remains.
I can't even say how I knew her.
Then that's where we'll start.
Watson...
We know her name.
You said you saw pictures of her with her family. I'll talk to them.
I promised the captain.
I didn't.
You stay here, dig into your files, see if her name pops up.
You think I knew her through my work.
How do you know anyone?
Maybe she wanted to hire you or she was a witness in a case you were working.
Or maybe Gregson was right-- you just needed someone to clean this place.
Whatever the connection is, I'm telling you right now: you did not k*ll that woman.
Uh, Mrs. Sandoval? Hi, I'm Joan Watson.
I know who you are.
Um, the detectives from the 35th told you about me. And your partner.
I am so sorry for your loss.
I can imagine how difficult this week has been for you, but I promise you I am only here because I want to help find the person who k*lled your sister.
I don't want to talk to you.
Please, do you have any idea how Maria and Sherlock would have known each other?
What do you mean how they would have known each other?
He was going through a difficult time, he's having trouble remembering.
I would want to forget k*lling Maria, too.
Mrs. Sandoval...
No.
You ask me how they knew each other. I don't know.
She was indocumentado.
Illegal.
She stayed out of trouble, she-she did her work.
Went to church.
But in the end, it didn't matter.
Trouble found her.
Please, don't come here again.
(door closes)
Man: All right, check the stitching, get a feel for it.
Huh? Nice, right?
You're not gonna find quality like that on Canal Street. (sniffles)
What, you don't like the color?
You want to see it in red? I got it in red.
Oh, ladies, come on, come on, don't be like that. Hey, I got a special going on today-- two for one.
What, do you got a date with Godzilla or something?
Those women are from China, not Japan.
Though the racism worked, either way.
Don't suppose I can interest you in a handbag?
That depends. Does your supplier always spell “Prada” with two Ds?
(chuckles)
Been a long time.
Not long enough, Oscar. Not nearly.
But I need your help with something.
(chuckles) I can't believe it's been three years.
Yes, well, time flies when you're on heroin.
You look good.
(chuckles)
You clean?
I am.
Good for you. Hey!
Hey! Beat it! Yeah, scram!
We had a good thing going on.
We were a good team.
Actually, we were not a team.
I was a consumer of narcotics, and you were someone with access to pharmaceutical-grade product.
You don't call that a team?
I do not.
Yes, you spent a good deal of time at my home, but that was because you were prone to rendering yourself unconscious.
(sighs)
How did it all go so wrong?
Well, if memory serves, Oscar, you let yourself in one day and made off with several thousand dollars' worth of rare books and computer equipment.
Well, you said you needed my help?
You may recall, in the weeks prior to our parting ways, my drug use became quite profound.
Well, the price was some equally profound holes in my memory.
And no one spent more time with me during that period than you.
I would like to know if the name Maria Gutierrez means anything to you.
There's evidence to suggest I had plans to meet with her in December of 2011...
Sherlock, of course I remember her. Maria?
From the circus. Dark hair, big...
No, no, no. Th-That's Marena.
She was one of my paramours.
Maria, Oscar.
Maria Gutierrez.
Do you remember the name or not?
Look, man, I'm sorry.
You're not the only one who has trouble remembering those days.
Ah, well, this was fun.
Catching up.
I got to go.
Maybe we can do it again sometime.
(line ringing)
Holmes: Watson. I just got home. Where are you?
I thought a constitutional might jog my memory.
It did not.
How did you do?
To be honest, not good.
The guys at the 35th told Maria's family and friends about me.
No one was in a talking mood.
My files were equally fruitless.
If Ms. Gutierrez was connected to a crime I was investigating, I failed to make a note of it.
Is it possible this is some sort of frame-up?
The body was so well hidden, it took three years to discover.
If it was a frame-up, it was a very poor one.
You know, I've been reading up on articles from when she disappeared in 2011.
I know it's not the same as looking at police files, but something jumped out at me.
She put a lot of hours in at her church's soup kitchen.
You think she may have come across some shady characters there?
Marcus is running down a list of their frequent fliers.
You brought the detective into this?
Of course I did.
He's gonna let us know if anyone has a record.
I'm almost home. We'll discuss the matter in person.
Man: Sherlock Holmes?
Do I know you?
(grunting)
(alarm blaring)
(moaning)
Let's go. Come on. We got to go. Come on.
Let's go!
(alarm continues blaring)
(groans)
(groans) You know, I'd have an easier time examining you if you would put down your phone.
I imagine you would. Fortunately for the both of us, my wounds are entirely superficial.
There could be internal damage.
There is not.
Well, if you're in such great shape, why did you come here?
I enjoy hospitals.
Especially in the middle of the night.
Doctor, if my ears do not deceive me, a real patient has just arrived.
A man with a lightbulb in an unfortunate place.
Right.
Nurse: Hey, we need you.
Foreign body impaction. Bad one.
Holmes: If you require assistance, you will not find smaller or steadier hands than Watson's.
So, are you gonna call the police, or should I?
There's no need. You were targeted.
One of the men called you by name.
And it can't be a coincidence that you were jumped the same day you were questioned about a homicide.
I think it is a coincidence. Though I do not disagree that the two events are connected.
Does the name Prentice Gutierrez ring a bell?
Maria's brother. I saw his name mentioned in one of the articles I read.
I couldn't track him down today.
Probably because he was busy planning an ambush.
How do you know he was one of the...
There are few circumstances more amenable to picking a man's pocket than a thrashing.
It is better to be the thrasher, obviously, but beggars can't be choosers.
An Internet search of Mr. Gutierrez revealed nothing more than his connection to his sister.
But a police intranet search, however...
He was arrested for burgling a home in November of 2011.
That's just one month before Maria disappeared.
He insisted to anyone who would listen that he was innocent.
And you posited earlier that Maria wished to hire me as a detective.
She believed him.
You were supposed to find the person who really did it.
Prentice.
I know you?
We had a brief physical relationship.
Perhaps this will jog your memory.
I lost this a couple of days ago. Thanks.
Mr. Gutierrez, I bear you no ill will.
You learned my name from the detectives investigating Maria's m*rder, and you took matters into your own hands.
I don't know what you're talking about.
Of course you do.
Just like you know you're on parole for that burglary charge in 2011.
An as*ault charge could violate you back to prison.
It'd be worth it, though, wouldn't it? Hurting the man who hurt Maria?
The problem is, neither of us can say with any certainty that I am that man.
Right. Because you don't remember.
Or at least that's the story you tried to sell to my other sister.
The burglary. You said you didn't do it.
You got any idea who did?
What the hell does that have to do with anything?
We're investigating the possibility that Maria wanted help finding that person.
He would've had motive to stop her.
You stay away from me and my family.
Both of you.
We'll go back to the station. We'll look into burglaries that were committed around that time.
We might be able to find a suspect without his help.
(whirring, clicking)
So, we're onto something, though, aren't we?
You know who committed the burglary.
You have until I finish replacing these brake pads.
If you're still here when I turn around, I'm the one who's gonna be calling the cops.
Mr. Gutierrez...
Come on. Let's go.
It occurs to me, you know, that any one of these tools could've been the end of me last night.
But you att*cked me with fists and with booted feet.
So you didn't want to k*ll me. You just wanted to hurt me.
Do you want to do it again?
What are you talking about?
I'm talking about reciprocity.
I'm talking about quid pro quo.
If you submit to my questions...
I'll submit to a blow from this wrench.
You're not certain that I hurt Maria, are you?
If you're open to suggestions, I offer my hand.
(clanging)
Come on. You're gonna break any number of bones.
The pain's gonna be excruciating.
Sherlock...
I did the burglary.
I did it.
And Maria knew it. I told her.
So you're wrong about her wanting you to find the person who really did it.
If she wanted your help, it didn't have anything to do with that.
Watson: Can you think of anyone who would've wanted to hurt her?
(sighs) You know she cleaned, right?
The year she went missing, there was a guy she worked for who owned a couple of buildings in Queens, and one of them was being rented by a-a councilman who was running for reelection.
Uh, Barclay.
She told me that someone there was hitting on her, that-that it made her uncomfortable.
Did she tell you the man's name?
No.
Because she was worried that I might do something stupid.
And you know what? She was right. I would have.
I told the police after she went missing.
They said they looked into it but that it was a dead end, that the guy had an alibi.
According to them.
According to them.
Holmes: Councilman Barclay would appear as a friend of the department.
Perhaps the police who were investigating Prentice's claim that his sister was being harassed didn't encounter a dead end so much as a “do not enter.”
What are you saying? That this was some sort of cover-up?
Well, if there was, it would be a turn up for us.
Conspiracies are fraught.
One secret versus many keepers.
There'd be no shortage of new leads.
You were gonna let him do it, weren't you?
Maria's brother-- you were gonna let him hit you with that wrench.
Woman: Excuse me.
The councilman will see you now.
I didn't know Maria well, but she was sweet.
I spent a lot of late nights here during the campaign.
I'd see her when she'd come in to clean, and she'd ask how I was holding up.
When... Maria was reported missing, I'd hoped that she'd just gone back to her country, but... I'd been around too many cops for too many years to really believe that.
It's our understanding that one of your reelection team was briefly considered a suspect.
That's right.
I'm sorry, it's just...
I've been advised not to talk to you.
You are aware that I'm a person of interest.
Barclay: Even though Maria wasn't a member of my team, what happened to her affected us.
I've been keeping myself apprised.
I'm confused.
Why did you agree to see us?
Because...
I'm also a fan.
The administrative hearing last year, you had to make your case to stay on with the department.
A lot of people wanted you gone, but I looked into you.
And the more I discovered, the more impressed I was.
If you say you didn't hurt Maria, I'm inclined to believe you.
Well, thank you.
It's true, M-Maria was being harassed by someone who worked here.
My deputy press secretary-- a man named Tom Graves.
He propositioned her on several occasions.
I wasn't aware until the police questioned him about her disappearance.
We were told he was cleared.
He was out of the state the night Maria went missing.
I was told there was a video of him at his hotel.
I still fired him, of course.
Hmm. So much for the cover-up.
Like I said, I have a sense for how you work.
I know you make a habit of catching things other people have missed.
I'll give you everything I gave the police in 2011.
If Tom got away with something... maybe you'll be able to figure out how.
Watson: Hey.
I thought you said you were going for a walk to clear your head.
It should trouble you how often you believe that.
What is this?
Upon our verification of the alibi of Tom Graves, randy press secretary, I've decided to attack this case as I would any other.
It is not utterly devoid of fact, and there is even a strong suspect.
Watson: Is that a picture of you?
Holmes: I took that one by accident several years ago.
I was in an altered state, and I mishandled my phone.
God only knows what I intended to photograph.
If you really want to beat yourself up...
You think this is an exercise in self-pity.
I think this is an Olympics in self-pity.
First you tell Prentice Gutierrez he can break your hand, and now you're sitting in the dark staring at an old photograph of yourself.
You did not k*ll that woman-- stop acting like you did.
You are positive I didn't do it.
Of course I am.
How?
Because I know you.
Yes. Better than anyone.
But let make one thing perfectly clear.
You did not know him.
You never met him.
So you're Dr. Jekyll now and he's Mr. Hyde?
You continue to misunderstand. At that point in my life, I did not plumb down into some dark part of myself.
I detached from myself, from all that was essential to me.
To say that you can guess what I was capable of is illogical-- I was a different person.
And the fact that I remember so little from that time has been nothing but a tremendous relief to me until now!
I'm sorry, okay?
I know it hurts, but there is nothing you can say that's gonna convince me that you k*lled that woman.
Let's adhere to our sunniest theory for a moment, shall we?
That my note to Maria Gutierrez was not, in fact, an invitation to m*rder, but an agreement to lend my help as a detective.
What if she knew she was in danger?
And what if I missed something that my sober self would have observed in an instant that might have saved her life?
Would you still consider my hands blood-free?
(phone ringing)
(phone continues ringing)
Watson: Hey, Marcus.
Hey. I ran that list of regulars from the soup kitchen where Maria Gutierrez volunteered.
Got back about two dozen names with arrest records.
I just e-mailed them over.
No one jumps out, but they all seem worth talking to.
I cleared my morning to help out.
Figured I'll take the first ten or 12 guys.
Thank you, Detective. That won't be necessary.
Why did you just do that?
Because a meaningful connection between Maria Gutierrez and myself has just materialized.
I recognize a name on this list.
(knocking)
Go away.
(knocking)
(sighs) Are you deaf? I said go away!
(panting): Aw, man, you busted my door.
That might be the highlight of this encounter, Oscar.
You lied to me.
You told me you did not know Maria Gutierrez-- it's come to my attention that you were a regular at the soup kitchen where she worked.
What?
St. Luke's Parish.
You tell me you never supped there.
Yeah, yeah, sure I did, I still do, but...
Come on, man, what, you think I remember every person that ever worked there?
I think a connection between you and the woman I'm accused of murdering is quite remarkable.
I think the fact that you lied to me about it is rather suspicious.
Come on, Sherlock, please, I'm sick.
You're in withdrawal, and that's good-- it's going to make it more difficult for you to deceive me again.
Watson: Where were you the night Maria disappeared?
(laughs): Oh, what, you think I did it?
Come on, Sherlock, that's crazy.
Tell us about the note, Oscar.
What note?!
Watson: The one found in Maria's purse-- the one that said Sherlock was gonna meet with her.
Did you trick her into writing it?
(pants)
(chuckles quietly)
You really don't remember, do you?
Remember what?
You k*lled her, man.
You!
Yeah, I bet you feel pretty big these last couple of years-- off the horse, back on the job, all clean and pretty.
Only you weren't, were you?
No, you had dirt on you! Blood!
Yeah, you always thought you were better than me, even when you were using, but now you know-- you're not.
You're worse.
I may be a bum and a junkie, but I never k*lled anyone.
You will tell me everything that you know.
All right, yeah, man.
Yeah, sure.
You know, get a pen.
Let me make it easier for you to pin it all on me.
You want my advice?
Let it go.
(panting): If all the police have is a note... count your blessings.
Watson.
We're leaving?
Yes. This is not over.
It'd better be, or trust me, you're gonna spend the rest of your life in a cell!
You haven't said much since we got back.
I have a plan, if you want to hear it.
We meet with the captain first thing.
We tell him everything.
He brings Oscar in.
If Oscar's still sick, it might not take him long to crack.
Your plan is flawed.
He will not crack because he did not do it.
He's been convicted of purse-snatching and as*ault.
Probably tried to rip Maria off; she fought back.
No.
His withdrawal symptoms, as predicted, made him utterly readable.
He was telling the truth when he said I did it.
Are you saying you believe him?
I'm saying I believe that he believes I'm the guilty party.
He's either correct or he's laboring under a horrific misconception.
Either way, he did not do it.
He will not crack.
Your plan is flawed.
Sorry if I upset you this morning.
At the garage with the wrench.
It's okay.
It's a form of t*rture... having to swim through my old life.
I know that over the years, you've suffered your own travails and you can relate to a profound sense of guilt.
You cannot relate to a profound sense of shame.
(doorbell rings)
(indistinct radio transmission)
Detectives.
Mr. Holmes.
What is it? What's going on?
Isn't it obvious?
I'm being arrested.
Sherlock Holmes, you're under arrest for the m*rder of Maria Gutierrez.
You have the right to remain silent and refuse to answer questions.
Anything you say may be used against you in a court of law.
All I could get out of my buddy at the 3-5 was that some new witness came forward.
Someone who said they saw Sherlock k*ll Maria?
No, someone who says they heard him thr*aten her life a few days before she disappeared.
I don't believe it.
The guys at the 3-5 do.
Right now, that's all that matters.
I don't suppose you were able to put a name to the witness.
They're keeping everything under wraps. Like they should.
Holmes is not a cop, but he's close.
They got to protect their case.
You have any luck with that list I sent you last night?
We did.
Sherlock knew one of the names.
We talked to the guy.
Is it someone you like for the m*rder?
No.
But I'm pretty sure another conversation is in order.
You don't look sick anymore, Oscar.
I'm guessing you scored last night?
(chuckles)
You know, I never got your name.
Joan.
I work with Sherlock.
Hi, Joan. Uh... you here with some money for a new door?
No, I'm here because I know you're the witness who got Sherlock arrested.
What?
Okay, I want to know what you told them right now.
Wait a second. Wait a second.
Sherlock's in jail?
Okay, don't, Oscar.
You threatened him, you told him he was gonna go to prison.
Oh, no. No, this is bad.
If you don't start telling the truth, it's gonna get worse.
No, you don't get it. It's bad for both of us, him and me.
Look, I said what I said to scare him off.
The last thing I wanted was for him to get arrested.
How is this bad for you?
I didn't do it, okay? He did.
But he can take me down with him.
Listen, whatever really happened three years ago, I will help you.
But first you need to tell me why you think Sherlock k*lled Maria.
I'll do you one better.
I'll show you.
Sherlock was right.
I did know Maria from the soup kitchen.
She was beautiful.
I was a bum, and she talked to me.
She talked to all of us.
I bragged a couple times that my buddy was this big private eye.
She'd laugh, and then, one day, she said she had a problem.
She asked if he could help.
What was the problem?
I don't know.
She would only tell Sherlock.
So I went to him, said I knew someone who wanted to talk to him.
But he was in a bad way, had been for weeks.
But he said he would meet her.
That's what the note was about?
The one found in Maria's purse?
I don't know.
I guess.
Few days later, I hear she's missing.
I go see Sherlock, and he's wasted.
Can't wake him up.
And I'm nervous, looking around for more of whatever he's on.
Instead of his stash...
I find this.
Look, for what it's worth, I don't think he meant to do it.
No, I just think he was confused.
That happens sometimes.
One night I crashed with him, I woke up, and he had a knife to my throat.
Kept saying I was a spy or something.
So, you hid these here to protect him?
No, protect us.
I mean, I had a record.
I set up the meeting.
Think the cops won't come after me as an accessory?
Yeah, so I took the bag and, you know, a few things that I could pawn, and that was that.
I didn't see Sherlock again, you know, until a few days ago.
Why didn't you just get rid of the bag?
In case he ever came after me for the stuff I stole or to blame me for what he did to Maria.
Hey, this was insurance.
Look, I'm sorry if that's not what you wanted to hear, but that's the truth.
I believe you.
Who are you calling?
Friend at the 11th.
You're gonna give this stuff to the cops?
Hey, this shirt, these pants-- they're the end of Sherlock.
You get that, right?
Actually, I think you're wrong.
I think they're gonna help him.
(line ringing)
It's interesting, Watson, spending the night in a cell.
(clears throat) I'm reminded that there are good places for bad people.
Is that what you are now-- a bad person?
You've been to see Oscar.
Or you yourself have been cooking heroin?
May I assume he's the witness who told Detectives Demps and McShane that I had threatened Maria Gutierrez?
Actually, no.
He took this clothing out of your place a few days after Maria disappeared.
Do you recognize them?
He thought you were wearing them when you k*lled her, but the sizes are wrong, and the bloodstain pattern suggests it was worn by someone who committed a stabbing m*rder.
Maria died from blunt force trauma to the skull.
You believe these are evidence for an entirely different crime?
Maria told Oscar she had a problem and needed your help.
What if these were the problem?
Maybe they were at your place because she gave them to you.
Maybe she knew about a m*rder and got her hands on these.
Instead of bringing them to the police, she brought them to me, heroin addict.
She was in the country illegally and probably worried about being deported.
Either way, the k*ller found her, Oscar took the clothes, and you forgot you ever had them.
Just like you forgot about her.
Now Marcus and the captain are looking into stabbing deaths around the time that she disappeared.
If we can find one that connects back to her in any way-- a person that she knew, a place where she spent a lot of time...
We might be able to identify the real k*ller.
Your search will need to extend to missing persons, as well.
If the k*ller hid the body of his second victim, Maria, it stands to reason he also hid the body of his first.
Good news is, I might be able to narrow that search considerably for you.
What do you mean?
I was wrong.
I do recognize that shirt, but not from three years ago.
The shirt has a double cuff at the wrist.
The inlay on the buttons is rather distinctive.
I've seen it recently.
I believe I know who's behind all of this.
Councilman Barclay, Tommy Gregson.
We met at a fund-raiser a few years ago?
Ah, of course.
It's great to see you again.
This is Detective Bell, and, uh, you know Ms. Watson.
Of course.
There have been some new developments in Maria's case.
We were hoping we could discuss them with you.
Oh, tell me, how can I help you?
A new witness came forward last night.
He told police that he saw Sherlock thr*aten Maria.
Oh, I hadn't heard.
Is the name Eddie Bynum familiar to you?
I don't think so.
Why?
Because he's the witness.
He's also a site foreman at Hatano Construction.
You know his boss, Matthew Hatano.
They've handled the majority of the Section 8 housing developments in your district the last few years.
Okay.
You steered a lot of business their way-- a couple of million at least.
If you had asked for a favor, it'd be hard to say no.
I'm sorry.
I'm not following.
You don't know Eddie Bynum. Okay.
What about Kelsey Prior?
Captain, I'm not sure what this is, but I'd like the three of you to leave.
I need to place a call to the commissioner.
If it's about us being here, I'll save you the trouble.
He knows.
Watson: Kelsey Prior, Councilman.
You knew her, right?
She was a...
She was the wife of a dear friend.
She was stabbed to death in her home in December, 2011.
It looked like a robbery gone wrong, only it wasn't, was it?
Friend of hers thought she was having an affair.
The detectives who caught the case couldn't find any evidence of that.
We're guessing you were pretty careful.
You had a lot to lose, after all; you were trying to get reelected.
This is ridiculous.
Why don't you tell us what happened?
Did she try to break it off?
thr*aten to go public?
Bell: Whatever it was, you stabbed her to death.
You had her blood all over you, so instead of going home to your wife, you came here, to your office.
Told our colleagues you spend a lot of nights here.
Probably had a change of clothes.
Problem was, you weren't alone.
Maria saw you getting rid of the evidence, right?
Maybe you took it somewhere and she followed.
Or maybe you dumped it right here at the office.
Either way, she got her hands on it.
Bell: You must've gotten nervous.
Decided you wanted to dispose of the bloody clothes some other way.
But when you went to retrieve them, they were gone.
You thought of Maria.
I'm calling my attorney.
Watson: Before you do, you should know we have the clothes.
Sherlock remembered seeing them in a picture when we were here the other day.
They don't connect you to Maria's m*rder, but they do connect you to Kelsey's.
Four years ago, police were able to determine that the k*ller's hand slipped over the hilt of the knife when he stabbed her.
He cut himself, leaving blood at the scene.
When we compel a DNA sample from you, it's going to match.
Between that and Eddie Bynum, who I'm confident is going to tell us his boss put him up to giving a false statement last night, you might want to tell your attorney he's got his work cut out for him.
Watson: The witness, Eddie Bynum, folded pretty quickly.
So did Matthew Hatano.
When the councilman saw the writing on the wall, he told us everything.
He did k*ll Kelsey Prior, and then, a few nights later, he k*lled Maria.
The same night I met with her.
Was he following her?
He never knew about you.
What he did, he did a few hours later.
He went to her place.
She wasn't there, so he called her.
He said he could explain everything.
It was just one big misunderstanding.
He told her if she agreed to meet with him, he could pull some strings at the department.
Get her brother out from under the burglary charge he was facing.
She believed him.
He picked her up at the Frobisher Motel in Bayside.
I remembered the name from some of your old case files.
I know that on at least two occasions, you stashed witnesses there you thought were in danger.
The other night, you said you were worried you might have missed something.
Something you would've noticed if you were sober.
I don't think you missed anything.
No, I just forgot someone who needed my help.
Where are you going?
Walk.
It should trouble me, right?
How often I believe that?
♪ ♪
(door opens)
(door closes)
Holmes: Oscar.
Sherlock.
Hey.
I heard you got sprung.
Have you ever tried stopping?
Stopping what?
Come on, man.
Rehab's for quitters.
And it would be a shame, would it not?
Quitting all of this?
What's that?
It's contact information for Hemdale Rehabilitation Facility.
You now have a standing reservation there.
Oh, that's... that's very nice of you.
No, actually, it's not.
I despise you, Oscar.
I always have.
You were never more than a sickening means to a sickening end.
I would excise you from my life entirely, but I bear some responsibility for you.
Three years ago, you helped steer me to the lowest point of my existence.
But a case could be made that I did the same for you, so...
I came here to make amends.
Hemdale, Oscar.
Go there, get better... or don't.
But mark my words, if I do see you again, make sure it's because you're ready to make reparations of your own.
Hey.
You're gonna see me again, you can count on it.
Only this time, you're gonna be the one coming back to me.
To where I am.
And it won't be for any amends.