Source URL: https://transcripts.foreverdreaming.org/./viewtopic.php?t=34256

Previously on Elementary...
Shinwell, you were shot at.
Leave it alone.
We can't just do nothing.
I'll be fine.
Ballistics came back on a slug,  and it was a match for b*ll*ts collected  from an unsolved m*rder case 12 years ago.
Victim's name is Jameel Clark.
You shot at Shinwell, because 12 years ago  he m*rder*d your brother.
Tell me I'm wrong.
Sorry.
Why are you sorry?
Well, you care about Shinwell.
You've been nothing but kind to him.
Learning he's not the man that you thought he was,  it must be disappointing.
And you believe everything that Damon Clark told you?
There's no possibility he was lying?
I saw no indication.
And keep in mind, he didn't come to me.
I went to him.
I was looking for confirmation of a theory  based on my interpretation of his brother's case,  and the recent attempt on Shinwell's life.
12 years ago, Shinwell m*rder*d Jameel Clark.
It's the only thing that makes any sense.
Maybe.
Or maybe there was another reason  that Damon wanted to hurt Shinwell.
Watson...
You said it yourself,  you went to Damon...
Maybe Damon told you  what you wanted to hear.
He told a completely different story 12 years ago.
He said he didn't see or hear anything  the night his brother was k*lled.
He was in fear for his life.
He remains in fear for his life.
I'm just saying there is no actual proof  that Shinwell pulled the trigger.
So it's Damon's word against his.
We don't even know Damon at all.
Not like we know Shinwell.
Do we know him?
Damon Clark has agreed  to give a statement to Detective Guzman this afternoon.
I recommend you join them.
Hear his testimony firsthand,  look him in the eye when he tells his story.
And then tell me if you're not convinced.
Unit 1056,  Several dozen boxes, contents unknown.
Bidding starts at $100.
100.
400.
Why so aggressive?
You got a tip?
Counter or don't, kid.
600.
600.
Do I hear 700?
700.
Got 700, now 800.
Who's in for 800?
700 going once.
700 going twice...
1,000.
1,000.
Do we have 1,100?
Too rich for me.
Going once, going twice.
Sold to Xavier for 1,000.
You want to stick around, see what you missed out on?
Come on...
Waterford Crystal.
Midnight Ranger number one.
You hit the jackpot, kid.
Hey, check that cabinet,  would you?
Hey!
You just bought that.
Yeah, well... you just bought that.
The guy who rented this unit  stopped paying his bill a couple months ago.
Now we know why.
We think that's him?
The manager here's pretty sure.
Thing is, when I ran the I.D.
the renter used on his application,  it came back to a who died in a single-vehicle accident  two years ago.
So whoever that is, he didn't want his real name  attached to this place.
So he's not just a mummy, he's a John Doe.
The body was stuffed into that cabinet.
It's air-tight, which is why no one smelled him.
I presume that you noticed  the identical entry and exit wounds on his torso?
Yeah, like he was stabbed clean through with something.
With a sword, most likely.
Easy to imagine a trove like this  containing an antique one.
The k*ller might have grabbed it in the heat of the moment.
Yeah, well, whatever it was, he took it with him.
And yet it betrayed him.
Despite what the motion picture industry  would have us believe, it is not easy  to pierce skin, ribs, and muscle  in a single thrust.
So we're looking for someone  with a lot of upper body strength.
I say we should go and look for a guy like that  on the security footage for this place,  only there isn't any.
One of the downsides of keeping your stuff  in the cheapest storage facility in town.
It's an upside if you're a thief.
Pretty sure this wasn't a robbery.
According to the guys who found the body,  the k*ller left a small fortune behind.
No, I wasn't talking about our k*ller,  I was alluding the the thefts  committed by our victim, John Doe.
He keeps a small fortune in a facility without any cameras.
He uses a stolen ID to rent a unit  in the furthest corner of the building.
He's a thief if ever there was one.
There's a good chance at least some of the owners  filed police reports, right?
Wrong.
Unless the NYPD maintains a robbery squad in the hereafter.
All of these items have been labeled  with their owners' real names.
What do they have in common?
They're dead.
They all died of natural causes  in and around New York  within the last two years.
Note, none of their obituaries  have any mention of any heirs,  And they all contain the same phone number  to call should the reader feel that he or she  has a claim over the decedent's estate.
That's the Manhattan Public Administrator's Office.
They protect the assets of people who die with no will.
You think our victim worked for them?
Who better to steal from the dead than the person  charged with sorting through their possessions?
That's Travis?
W-What happened to him?
What happened is he was m*rder*d.
- What?
- Mr. Salas,  your supervisor at the Public Administrator's Office  not only helped us to confirm  that this was Travis Unger, but she also told us  that the two of you were partners.
Or at least you were until he disappeared two months ago.
His body was discovered in a storage unit  in Canarsie.
The unit was filled with stolen items from dead people,  specifically the dead people the two of you  were assigned to look into.
The city requires P.A.
investigators  to work in pairs to prevent theft.
So either you were asleep on the job,  or you were helping Travis.
We're thinking you were partners  in work and crime,  only something went south.
Maybe Travis was keeping more than his share?
Wait, wait, wait.
You're right about Travis  stealing from people, okay?
He'd throw me a few hundred bucks every now and then  to look the other way.
I'd go watch a movie, and leave him in people's places,  but that was it.
I wasn't his partner, and I didn't k*ll him.
I didn't even know he was dead  until you showed me these pictures.
So you're not a k*ller, and you're not a thief.
Just a guy who doesn't mind a friend  ripping off the dead.
I-I know how that sounds,  but the people you're talking about,  half the time the P.A.'s Office  doesn't find heirs for them.
They sell their stuff, and the proceeds go to the state.
Travis always thought that was crazy.
We do all the work, New York gets all the money.
Admitting that you were profiting from his exploits  doesn't really make you any less of a suspect  in his m*rder, so...
The first day Travis didn't come into work  was January 27.
I remember because our boss called me,  wanted to know if I heard from him.
So?
So I was on a cruise with my wife.
I had been there for almost a week.
That means the last time Travis was seen alive,  I was out on a boat in the middle of the Pacific.
I'm gonna need the name of the cruise line.
You can start writing now.
Sorry, it's just...
I remember when my boss called,  I wasn't worried.
What does that mean?
Before he disappeared,  Travis left me a message.
Said he found something from our last clear-out  that was gonna make him rich.
When he stopped coming into work,  I figured it was because he was sitting on a beach somewhere  drinking Mai tais.
Well, whatever he took...
maybe it was too hot to handle.
Got him k*lled.
You don't know what it was?
No.
But I know it came from the home of the last heirless person  we were assigned to.
Guy's name is Milton Barker.
Whatever Travis didn't take would have gotten boxed up  and sent to the warehouse.
Warehouse?
The P.A.'s warehouse.
If you die without a will or heirs,  your stuff gets sent there while we investigate.
Look at Milton Barker's stuff.
Maybe you could figure out what's missing.
Am I the only one keeping an eye out  for the lost Ark of the Covenant?
Nah, that's in a warehouse in Yemen.
I was joking.
So was I.
Crate 10997...
Last earthly possessions  of Milton Barker.
Or at least the last earthly possessions  that weren't stolen by Travis Unger.
Says here Mr.
Barker was  an insurance adjustor, died of a stroke, age 86,  no known heirs.
So, how do you open this?
I don't.
So far,  I'd say the only thing missing is a tie to go with this shirt.
Is that an antique?
Easily.
This is an 18th century sea chest.
Sailors used to keep their personal effects inside.
Judging by the look of this one,  it belonged to a person of quite some standing.
Ship's captain, perhaps.
Emerson Barker.
No doubt an ancestor of Milton.
You smell something?
It's vanilla with an almond finish.
The odor is created by the breakdown  of cellulose and lignin,  two of the components of paper.
It's what gives old books their smell.
And yet...
There's no old book in there.
Judging by its placement  inside a captain's chest, I'll bet it was a captain's log.
Might also be what Travis Unger stole.
Okay.
But if he thought Emerson Barker's stuff was valuable,  why not take it all?
Why just the log?
I had just fallen asleep  when their voices woke me up.
Shinwell and my brother.
They were laughing, I don't know about what.
I heard the refrigerator door open,  and then all of a sudden...
three g*nshots.
Pop, pop, pop, like firecrackers.
And I hid in my room  until I heard the front door close,  and I went out...
and I saw Jameel on the kitchen floor.
Blood everywhere.
And, Shinwell was gone.
I thought that maybe he had ran after the k*ller.
I mean...
him and Jameel were like brothers.
But then I-I looked out the window and...
I saw him...
walking.
Not running, walking.
And he stopped to throw something in a garbage can,  and then he just...
walked away.
And I-I don't know why, but I-I-I...
I ran outside and, um,  I went to the garbage can and I put my hand in it  and then I-I reached around and...
and that's when I found it.
Found what?
The g*n.
The g*n he used to k*ll Jameel.
Only,  instead of giving the g*n  to the authorities, you kept it.
Why?
Because I needed a g*n.
To do what?
k*ll Shinwell.
I heard he was going to be at the funeral,  so I brought it with me.
I was gonna do it right there,  right in front of Jameel.
But you didn't.
I was ten.
I-I thought I was gonna get another chance, but then...
But then Shinwell got sent upstate and that was that.
Until a few nights ago.
Yeah, I,  I heard he got out and started rolling with SBK  like nothing ever happened.
I owed it to Jameel to try again.
But I missed.
And after that, I threw the g*n into the East River.
I guess I'm no k*ller.
But Shinwell sure as hell is.
Damon Clark's story  rang as true for you as it did for me.
I'm sorry.
Pretty sure I'm the one who should be apologizing.
I let a k*ller into our lives.
It's not like I haven't exposed you to the occasional k*ller.
What did Detective Guzman have to say?
Not much, actually.
He doesn't think the D.A.
is gonna want to pursue it.
Damon is an unreliable witness, at best.
And Shinwell has proven himself to be a strong informant.
So now what?
Now, we take a respite.
There is a more recent m*rder demands our attention.
Yeah, I got your text earlier.
So you think that Unger stole an old book  from a sea chest?
Not a book, a captain's log.
I initially thought the log to be that  of Captain Emerson Barker, the chest's original owner.
Only it wasn't?
A little research revealed  that Captain Emerson Barker  ran rum and sugar between the West Indies and New York  from 1692 to 1705.
His tenure was notably uneventful,  and yet, every single one of his logbooks  ended up in the archives of the New York Public Library.
Their collection covers his entire career.
That is, in fact,  the only thing that is noteworthy about them.
There aren't any missing volumes.
So if you're right that Travis Unger stole something  from Barker's chest,  it had to have been some other kind of book.
No.
I remain convinced it was a captain's log.
But you just said...
Come.
Pages from the logbooks of Captain Emerson Barker,  courtesy of the New York Public Library's online archives.
Now, these entries  represent one week aboard Captain Emerson's ship,  recorded in his own hand.
Now, he, like everyone else in Colonial times,  wrote with ink and quill.
Captain Barker would have had to mix  fresh ink every day.
Therefore, one would expect  each entry to be slightly different  in shade and consistency.
These all look the same.
That's because three to four times a year,  Captain Barker used the same ink mixture  to write several weeks' worth of entries in a single day.
You think he was making them up?
I know he was.
I've compared his writings to the logs of other ships  that were supposedly near his at the time of these entries.
And the weather data doesn't match.
Why?
Because his data is fabricated.
Why would he do something like that?
Shortly before you returned, I discovered that  his missing weeks overlap with att*cks on ships at sea,  by a pirate named “Black Peter.”  Wait a second.
Are you saying  that Emerson Barker was a pirate?
More specifically, a part-time pirate.
He and his crew led a double life.
When they weren't hauling their own cargo,  they were relieving other ships of theirs.
Quite clever, when you think about it.
Okay, say you're right.
What does all this have to do with Travis Unger?
A pirate captain is still a captain.
Still needs to record weather conditions,  latitude, longitude, profit shares.
He still needs to keep a log.
So, you think that's the book that Travis Unger stole.
Throughout his career, Black Peter  raided dozens of Spanish galleons  loaded with gold.
Lore has it he hid the booty in New York City.
No one knows what happened to it.
But it's quite possible that he recorded its location  in his secret logbook.
The same logbook our victim stole.
Unger told his partner that he found something  that was gonna make him rich.
I'd say a treasure map fits the bill, wouldn't you?
Pirate treasure in New York?
Piracy was actually a vital part  of the Colonial economy.
Many a privateer roamed Manhattan's streets  squandering their stolen doubloons on wine and wenches.
And never a place to turn away a good customer,  the city welcomed them with open arms.
Much as they do the pirates that roam Wall Street today.
Well, let's say this, Black Peter  did bury some gold somewhere in the city.
Don't you think someone would've found it by now?
We did some research, and we're pretty sure  this is not about Black Peter's personal treasure.
According to historical records,  Emerson Barker, AKA Black Peter,  invested his loot into the South Sea Company,  which famously went bankrupt in 1720.
But according to historians who are  familiar with his exploits, Black Peter also claimed to know  the location of a different treasure,  a lost fortune he was never able to get his hands on.
Right now, we're operating on the theory  that the stolen logbook contains the location  of that treasure.
So, what, we should put out  a Finest Message for a giant “X”  on a sidewalk?
50 paces from the old oak tree?
Actually, we don't think the treasure was buried.
We think it might be underwater.
I pulled Travis Unger's credit records.
One of the last places he used his card was a bar  called The Salty Bog.
It's near the South Brooklyn Marine Terminal,  it's a popular hangout for scuba divers  and marine salvagers.
If Unger had discovered the location of the sunken treasure,  he would've needed help  from someone with the right skills  and resources to retrieve it.
The bar would be a good place  to look for a partner.
A bartender at The Salty Bog told us.
Travis Unger came in a couple months ago,  looking for someone who could help him get to a ship  at the bottom of the ocean.
He said he pointed Unger  in your direction, Mr.
Vestergaard.
Yeah, that's right.
He said he had a logbook that belonged to Black Peter.
You know who that is?
He said the logbook contained the location  of a sunken Spanish galleon  called the Santa Leticia in it.
The Santa Leticia supposedly went down  with a fortune of gold on board.
He wanted me to provide a ship and the labor to pull it up.
Offered to split the take fifty-fifty.
I told him I wasn't interested.
You're an ardent treasure hunter.
According to an interview,  you only operate your commercial salvage business  to fund your expeditions.
So why would you turn down  the lead to a potential fortune in gold?
Something happened to this guy, right?
Is that why you're here?
You think I did it?
Travis Unger was m*rder*d  the day after the two of you met.
Maybe you wanted Black Peter's logbook,  but you didn't want to split the treasure.
So you k*lled Travis and took the book.
I mean, you are accustomed to looting the dead, after all.
No.
No, you-you got the wrong guy.
I didn't k*ll anyone.
Look, I turned him down because I already knew  the location of the Santa Leticia.
I first found out about the Santa Leticia in 2013  when I was digging through some old files in Seville.
It took me years, but I finally found her.
Very next day, I applied with the Admiralty Courts  for salvage title, which they granted.
Over a year ago, long before I ever met Travis Unger.
All right, well, we're gonna have to verify this.
Feel free.
I'll give you numbers of some of my investors, too.
Investors?
The Santa Leticia is in deep water, half a mile down.
That kind of salvage job  costs about a million dollars.
I had already sold 50% of the treasure to my investors.
If I'd given him 50%,  I would've been left with nothing.
And besides, there's a DVD in the back of that file.
It shows video of us when we finally made it  to the Santa Leticia about two weeks ago.
It's proof that somebody else  ended up with Black Peter's logbook.
Because when my crew and I got down there,  that ship had been picked clean.
Based on the condition of the wreck,  someone beat us to the gold by days.
Weeks, at most.
So you think Travis Unger tried to partner with someone else.
That person k*lled him, took the book,  and got to the Santa Leticia before you?
Yeah, you want to find who k*lled Travis Unger?
I'd start by finding the people who stole my treasure.
Thanks.
That'll do the trick.
The National Weather Service says they'll send us  the last two months of satellite footage  covering the coordinates Mr.
Vestergaard gave us.
Should be easy enough to spot a vessel  which anchored above the Santa Leticia  long enough to loot her.
Keep me posted, would you?
Where are you going?
The respite I mentioned last night?
It's over.
You know I don't like it when you do this.
Nobody does.
What's up?
What did I do?
Did I miss an appointment or something?
I require information.
About?
A m*rder.
What are you talking about?
I know you k*lled Jameel Clark.
What I don't know is why.
I told you everything I know about what happened to Jameel.
You told me everything you wanted me to know.
You left out the bits about sh**ting him in the back,  dropping the w*apon in a garbage can.
Believe it or not, I'm here because I want to help you.
Do tell.
12 years ago, you made a mistake.
Now obviously, you regret it.
Or you wouldn't have become an informant for the department.
You wouldn't have devoted yourself to dismantling SBK.
You're not the man you were.
That could not be more plain.
But the truth must out.
So tell me what happened that night?
What drove you to take Jameel's life?
I loved Jameel.
Like he was a brother.
So why did you sh**t him three times in the back?
You know what?
I think you should leave.
You have a relationship with the police,  and with the district attorney.
You must realize that there's a deal to be made if you confess.
There's nothing to confess.
So, if you don't mind...
You're making a mistake.
No, the mistake is yours.
I didn't k*ll anybody.
It's good luck you caught me.
I was planning to set sail for Sardinia tomorrow morning.
So...
how can I help the NYPD?
Well, last month, a sunken treasure ship  named the Santa Leticia was looted,  and satellite photos show your yacht,  the Sea Unicorn, anchored at the coordinates  for well over a week.
We know you consider yourself an amateur treasure hunter,  and that you maintain a private collection of the things  that you've found over the years at your home in Riyadh.
So tell us,  if we get a warrant to search your ship,  are we gonna find the Santa Leticia's gold on board?
Absolutely.
You don't deny looting the treasure?
Not at all.
Would you like to see a sample?
Actually, that would be very helpful.
I carry this one with me for good luck.
It's the first one found by my divers and very precious to me.
But you're more than welcome to come to the ship to see  the rest of the treasure.
You don't happen to have  a logbook there written by a man named Black Peter, do you?
It's with the rest of the treasure.
You know Black Peter?
He is one of my favorite pirates.
Mr. Al-Asmari,  that logbook was once in the possession  of a man by the name of Travis Unger.
He was looking for a partner to help retrieve  the treasure.
He was offering a fifty-fifty split.
But he was m*rder*d.
And now you're admitting to having  his book and the treasure.
I'm sorry to hear that this man is dead,  but I've never seen him before.
And I certainly would not have k*lled him  to find the location of Santa Leticia.
Why would I?
This is a million-dollar watch.
My shoes cost $5,000.
I have more money than I know what to do with.
I don't need to steal or k*ll to get what I want.
I'd have happily shared the treasure with this Travis Unger.
He never approached me.
If you never met him, where did you get Black Peter's logbook?
I bought it.
From?
I don't know.
I made the purchase on the Dark Web.
The seller wished to remain anonymous.
I paid 25,000 American dollars.
Travis Unger wanted 50% of a treasure worth millions.
There's no way he sold the logbook for $25,000.
You think I bought the logbook  from the man who k*lled this man.
But the transaction was made  entirely via screen names and encrypted e-mails.
Do you at least remember his screen name?
Of course.
It was Kashgar.
Like the city on the Silk Road.
Mason?
Hey.
I take it the partially melted statue of Coatlicue,  the Aztec earth goddess,  has something to do with the hunt for a Dark Web dealer  who sold a pirate's logbook to a Saudi billionaire?
His name is Kashgar, and Joan is totally catfishing him.
Thanks.
I figure Kashgar either k*lled Travis Unger himself  or knows the person who did.
So I came up with a plan to identify him.
We bought that statue from Kashgar.
Well, actually, not that statue.
That's a fake.
We bought a real one though.
It's in the basement.
I asked Mason  to use one of the 3-D industrial printers  from his university to make a copy.
Since when are you at university?
Since I turned 15.
Duh.
We melted one of the statue's hands to try to convince Kashgar  that he sold us a fake by accident.
See?
Why did you make a video?
'Cause we want Kashgar to watch it.
Which, according to this, he just did.
Mason embedded a Trojan horse in the video.
By watching it, Kashgar is giving us his IP address.
Got it.
Now all I have to do is  match the address to a name.
And...
Bam.
John Neligan.
Excuse me.
“John Neligan.
“Criminal sale of a controlled substance.
“Criminal possession of a w*apon.
as*ault in the first degree.”  Hope!
Grab me a beer, will ya?
Get on the ground!
Now!
My daughter's back there.
I'm clean, man!
Dad?
This is a mistake, sweetheart.
I didn't do anything.
Mr.
Neligan,  Detective Bell, NYPD.
Whatever tip you got, it's bogus.
I didn't violate my parole.
You can search the house.
You won't find anything that's not supposed to be here.
Look, we know you've been trafficking in stolen goods,  Mr.
Neligan, including a valuable book  you sold to a Saudi businessman.
What?
Save it, okay?
We know you're Kashgar.
I don't know what you're talkin' about.
Who the hell is Kashgar?
I am.
My dad didn't do anything.
It was me.
I'm Kashgar.
I came up with the whole Kashgar thing a year and a half ago.
It was a way to make money for college.
Well, ever since my dad  stopped dealing, money's been tight.
Not that he gets why I even want to go to MIT.
Do you understand that the crimes  you committed are very serious?
Well, I wasn't selling dr*gs or g*ns, like my dad used to.
It was just a bunch of antiques.
We're pretty sure a man  was m*rder*d over one of those antiques.
I told you, I don't know anything about that.
We're fairly confident that you didn't m*rder  the victim yourself.
He was run through with a sword.
And that takes a strong and practiced arm.
I mean, your father could have done it.
No.
That's crazy.
He doesn't even own a sword.
I mean, I don't think he owns a sword.
Maybe you should just tell us how you came into possession  of Black Peter's logbook.
I never possessed it.
I was a middleman.
That's all I ever am.
People reach out to me online  for help with Dark Web transactions,  usually because they can't figure out  how to do it themselves.
But I never handle the merchandise  or meet with the sellers.
So you just arrange the deals.
A couple of months ago, this guy reached out to me.
He said that he was a regular customer,  but I didn't recognize his screen name.
That's not unusual.
The people that I deal with,  they change up their info all the time.
He said he wanted my help selling a book  that used to belong to a pirate.
So you put it on the market for him.
No.
Not exactly.
He didn't actually want me to auction it.
He wanted me to offer it directly  to a guy named Farhan Al-Asmari.
He said to set the price at 25 thou.
Gave me the guy's private e-mail address and everything.
He specifically wanted the book sold to Al-Asmari?
Did you think that was odd?
No.
I get asked to help sell something, I do it.
No questions.
The odd part was that he said I could keep all the money.
Said it was a bonus for all the work I'd done for him in the past.
He didn't end up making a penny.
I don't get it.
Someone kills Travis Unger to get a pirate's logbook,  and the only people it ends up helping  are a 14-year-old girl and a Saudi billionaire.
And it doesn't look like either one of them is our perp.
What if the point wasn't to help anyone?
What if it was to harm?
Arranging for Hope Neligan  to pass Black Peter's logbook to Al-Asmari  didn't just profit those two parties...
It insured the utter failure of a third, Lars Vestergaard.
His expedition to the Santa Leticia was for nothing.
I mean, he didn't just miss out on the treasure...
He cost his investors millions.
So what if the k*ller's true goal was his ruination?
I don't know.
That's a long way to go to hurt a guy's business.
We'll talk to him again.
If there's someone out there who hates him enough  to commit a m*rder just to see him fail,  he probably knows the person's name, right?
I admit, I had my issues with Lars Vestergaard,  but I didn't do anything that would've harmed him  or his business.
We know that, over the past ten years,  you invested in a number of his expeditions,  mostly to disappointing results.
We also know you broke his nose at the Met three months ago.
During the first intermission of Der Freischutz.
It's a real shame to have missed the final two acts.
Mr. Jarman, you told police that you were upset  over treasure hunting losses.
You clearly have a grudge against the guy.
I had a grudge.
Past tense.
But the punch was the end of it.
The truth is, I'm a different man today.
Right after the...
altercation, my firm made me  take a sabbatical to work on my anger issues.
I spent the time off  building houses in Haiti.
It was life-changing.
I assume you got my name from Lars.
Did he also tell you about the pirates?
Pirates?
Lars likes to wine and dine his investors on his salvage ship.
About a year ago, I was on board late at night  when he was in port, and these men in masks,  five or six of them, came roaring up in speedboats.
They jumped on board and started wrecking his gear.
By the time we got down to the deck, they'd already sped away.
But they did thousands of dollars worth of damage.
According to Lars, it wasn't the first time.
He called them pirates?
No, I did.
Because they were flying a pirate flag.
It had a skull and everything.
But instead of the usual crossbones,  there were two scuba snorkels.
I don't know.
Maybe they're the people you're trying to find.
So, what did Mr. Vestergaard have to say this time?
He confirmed Jarman's story.
He said that he'd been att*cked on four occasions,  and that it's happened  to other salvage firms, as well.
None of them reported the att*cks  because they didn't want to spook their investors.
So, what kind of pirates have a bone to pick  with salvage operators?
He doesn't know.
Were you able to find out where that flag came from?
I was.
Unfortunately, ISewYourCustomFlag.com  is a small online shop,  and the owner doesn't sound especially organized,  but she's promised to let me know  when she's located the buyer's name and address.
I found something upstairs  that I would like you to explain.
So, if you don't mind...
You're making a mistake.
No, the mistake is yours.
I didn't k*ll anybody.
When were you planning on telling me about this?
I wasn't, mostly because the recording was my backup plan.
I thought that Shinwell might see the wisdom  in turning himself in.
He did not.
You disapprove?
Of the timing, yeah.
He's worked for months to embed himself in SBK.
An endeavor I cared more about  before I knew he was a cold-blooded k*ller.
You think we should look the other way?
SBK is a ruthless drug g*ng.
There is no doubt they are the greater evil.
So why get a confession out of Shinwell now?
Tell me, Watson, what did you think would happen  when Shinwell and Detective Guzman  finally bring the hammer down on SBK?
Do you think he would buy a little house here, settle down?
Or do you think he would be whisked away  by Witness Security, never to be seen again?
That's not what he wants.
He wants to be with his daughter.
That was never gonna happen.
Now that we know he k*lled Jameel Clark, it shouldn't.
As a physician, you pledge to do no harm,  but that's not always possible.
Cutting into a patient does them harm.
Medicines have side effects, sometimes terrible ones.
With chemotherapy, we actually give cancer patients poison,  hoping that it'll k*ll more malignant cells  than healthy ones.
So, he's the cure to cancer now, is he?
He's not the cure.
A means to an end.
A necessary evil?
No, just a lesser one.
Several months ago, I destroyed evidence  that would've violated his parole.
It would've guaranteed his return to prison,  so thanks to me, a m*rder*r now walks free.
So, if he kills again, it's gonna be on my head, not yours.
The man belongs behind bars.
Speaking of murderers,  our seamstress has the name of the person  who bought the pirate flag.
I don't know what to tell you.
I'm a marine archaeologist.
I study pirates.
Doesn't make me one.
A flag just like this  was commissioned by one of your students, Isaac Sheridan.
He admitted to committing several att*cks  on treasure-hunting ships,  including one owned by Lars Vestergaard.
According to Isaac, you instructed him  and several other students when to strike  and what equipment to damage in order to cr*pple  those companies' salvage capabilities.
People like Lars Vestergaard  desecrate important archaeological sites  for their own profit.
Sabotaging their ships was the only way to slow them down.
Until Travis Unger came along.
- Who?
- Travis Unger.
He used to work for the Public Administrator's Office.
A couple of months ago, he got his hands on a logbook  that contained the location of a sunken treasure galleon.
And he approached Vestergaard about salvaging the wreck.
Vestergaard turned him away because he'd filed a claim  on the same ship over a year ago.
You have the gear and the know-how  to run the same kind of operation.
So we think that Unger came to you next  to try to strike some kind of a deal.
You realized if you got to the treasure before Vestergaard,  you'd be able to preserve it and hurt his business.
Problem was, you couldn't beat him to the wreck.
And you couldn't promise Unger the 50% split that he demanded.
Academia is loathe to authorize such expenditure  without tedious review.
So you k*lled Unger and took the book.
What?
And then you arranged for it  to fall into the hands of Farhan Al-Asmari.
He keeps his hauls intact in his own private museum,  and according to your own academic papers,  he's given you access to his collection before.
Hold on.
Do I know Mr. Al-Asmari?
Yes.
Did I take things with my students too far?
No question.
But I'm telling you, none of us k*lled anyone.
Professor...
No.
I have a question now.
What is the name of this sunken ship  that I supposedly k*lled over?
The Santa Leticia.
Well, I don't know where you're getting your facts,  but there wasn't any treasure on the Santa Leticia.
There was.
Mr.
Al-Asmari pulled up millions in gold.
He's pretty proud of it, too.
No, this is impossible.
I've read everything that's ever been written  about the Santa Leticia, including the records  in the Archives of the Indies in Seville,  and there is not a document in recorded history  that says it went down with gold on it.
Black Peter would disagree with you.
Black Peter?
The logbook you think I stole, it was his?
You said Lars filed a claim on the Santa Leticia  before the logbook surfaced.
Yeah, we verified it.
That doesn't make any sense.
He would've seen all the records I saw in Spain.
Maybe he just had a hunch.
No, salvagers like him,  they don't work off hunches.
They need to know there's gold  on a ship like the Santa Leticia  or they'll have their investors to answer to.
I've got to make a call.
Excuse me.
Yes, thank you.
So, we're not liking the professor  for Travis Unger's m*rder.
Are you?
Everything she said fairly reeked of the truth.
Is that why you left to make a call?
I believe she was also telling the truth  when she said Lars Vestergaard had to have expected  to find nothing when he mounted his expedition  to the Santa Leticia.
But that doesn't make any sense.
Why go to the bottom of the ocean for nothing?
'Cause I think in Vestergaard's case,  nothing would have been far more valuable to him than gold.
Under the right circumstances, a producer could make more money  with a flop than he could with a hit.
He's quite good, isn't he?
I'm more of a Chocolate Factory kind of guy.
Someone want to tell me why you're showing me a movie?
Because you pulled off the same kind of scheme,  only instead of a musical about Nazis,  you convinced your investors to pay for an expedition  to a ship that you thought was empty.
Why the hell would I do that?
I asked myself the same question when a marine archaeologist  insisted that you couldn't have believed  there was treasure on board.
I wondered, maybe your intention  wasn't to plunder the Santa Leticia,  but rather your investors' pockets.
So I contacted one that you'd worked with before,  Clarence Jarman.
He helped us track down  the people who actually paid for you  to go to the Santa Leticia.
Turns out there were a lot of them,  more than anyone knew.
Just like the characters in the movie,  you oversold your shares  in the Santa Leticia's treasure.
You told us that you typically sell 50% of your profits  to cover your expenses,  but on this expedition you secretly sold  1,000% of what you might find,  raking in a total of $15 million in sales.
Your investors signed contracts that said  if the salvage effort was a flop, they'd get nothing.
That meant that after the real costs  of the expedition were covered,  you'd pocket almost $14 million in profit  and no one would be the wiser.
Seemed pretty foolproof,  but then a few weeks before you set sail,  Travis Unger showed up with Black Peter's logbook.
Suddenly there was evidence there really was gold  aboard the Santa Leticia.
If you got to the ship  and the treasure was still there,  you would've owed your investors ten times whatever it was worth.
Find ten million in gold, for example,  and you would've had to give them a hundred million.
You couldn't do that.
So you followed Unger to his storage unit,  k*lled him and took the logbook.
Now, you still needed  to make the Santa Leticia's gold disappear,  so you made sure the book ended up in the hands  of Farhan Al-Asmari.
He got to the treasure before you.
Problem was solved.
All right.
I may have oversold some shares,  but I didn't k*ll anyone.
Perhaps you'll recognize this.
This is a still taken from a documentary film  that you commissioned during one of your earliest treasure hunts.
The w*apon is a Spanish sword called a navaja.
You recovered it from a shipwreck in the Caribbean.
It's different from a traditional sword  in that the blade folds, making it easy to conceal.
So?
So Travis Unger was k*lled with a sword.
We'd like you to produce yours  so we can compare it to the victim's wounds.
I'm sorry.
I've lost it.
Actually, we think you did quite deliberately.
Coast Guard says that according to the transponder on your boat,  you took her out the night of the m*rder.
You went a half mile outside the harbor, then came right back.
Now, you're the sunken treasure expert,  Mr.
Vestergaard.
What do you think our divers will find  when they go to that spot?
Watson, I just left my meeting.
I'm absolutely famished, so, um, if you'd like me  to bring home any food for you...
Did you think I wouldn't notice?
You the one taught me how to coax a confession  out of a suspect.
Isolate.
Surprise.
Build a rapport.
You didn't think I knew what you were doing?
Shinwell...
No, you gonna listen to me now.
You want to know who k*lled Jameel?
SBK k*lled Jameel.
Leadership cut a deal with a rival g*ng,  and in exchange for a cease-fire,  the gangs agreed to work together  to raise the price of the dr*gs they were pushing.
Jameel's death was a condition.
He had taken up with the ex-girlfriend  of one of the other g*ng's lieutenants.
So he had to go.
SBK asked a friend to do it... but they lied.
They told his friend that he was a traitor.
They tricked him.
You looking for someone who k*lled one person.
SBK kills dozens of people a year.
Their dr*gs ruin thousands of lives,  but don't nobody care.
They don't get press.
They're not clever.
They're not fun.
They're just evil.
Are you done?
No.
There's something you need to know before I go.
I'm-a take SBK down.
And anybody who get in my way...  gonna get hurt.