Source URL: https://transcripts.foreverdreaming.org/./viewtopic.php?t=30219

Previously, on Elementary...
Bang.
You couldn't find a better hiding place for this thing?
I want to talk to you about Shinwell.
And why you approached him at his apartment the other day.
You got it all backwards.
It wasn't my idea to meet. It was his.
Do you know what would happen if a parole officer knew that you were hanging out with Tall Boy?
Tall Boy is not your problem.
This world is not safe.
Not for me, and especially not for you.
So get out. While you still can.
It's now or never, Doc.
Hello?
You turned your phone off, Watson.
Or the battery died.
In either case, shame on you.
Actually, I put it on silent.
I was trying to sleep in.
Double shame.
You know, I...
You're needed at the scene of a m*rder.
I'm afraid it's quite urgent.
Where's Marcus?
It's not his case.
The Captain?
I wasn't beckoned here, I heard about it on one of my scanners.
So, shortly after midnight, someone called 911 to report the sound of g*nf*re in this area.
Police took over an hour to respond.
When they did, they saw that body.
They also saw two men, who fled.
One of them tossed a g*n as he ran. A .38.
Neither of them was apprehended.
And, uh, based on what I've been able to overhear, the police think it's g*ng-related.
Someone died, and that's terrible, but I don't understand what we're doing here. We don't usually work this kind of case.
Especially when we're not invited.
There's a personal angle.
You knew the victim?
It was the description of one of the men that ran that caught my attention. African-American, approximately six foot tall, shaved head, beard, last seen wearing a green army jacket.
When I got here, C.S.U. were photographing a necklace that caught on that fence as he climbed over it.
I think that one of the men the police is looking for is Shinwell Johnson.
♪ Elementary 5x09 ♪
It Serves You Right to Suffer
Ricky Morales. Shot twice. First one is to the back of the head. Close range.
Second one for good measure.
You think this was an execution?
Ricky here is a known member of Los Espectros. You familiar?
Yeah. A Salvadoran street g*ng out of Queens.
Exactly.
And this is the Bronx. SBK territory.
South Bronx Killas.
I find it hard to believe that Ricky came here alone or of his own free will. If I had to guess, I'd say that he was scooped up somewhere and brought here.
See, I... I couldn't help but notice that the, uh... b*ll*ts used are 8mm, as opposed to, uh, .38, which was the w*apon discarded.
Yeah, well, the guy who didn't toss his g*n probably had the 8mm.
Well, perhaps. What do you think the chances are that they used an antique to k*ll him?
These are Nambu shells.
They're rimless, bottleneck cartridges.
They were introduced in Japan in 1904, and they were discontinued shortly after the second world w*r, as were, uh, the weapons used to fire them.
Not exactly g*ng hardware, is it?
Respectfully, I can't take your word that the m*rder w*apon's over a hundred years old.
I mean, let's let ballistics do their job, okay?
So, the two men who ran off, they were here almost an hour after the sh*ts were reported.
Don't you think that's odd?
They were probably waiting for a car to show so they could disappear the body.
So, two members of SBK, they abduct a rival, and they intend to k*ll him.
Instead of doing it in an environment they can control, they do it here, where the sh*ts can be heard by witnesses.
They use an antique w*apon.
They then linger for almost an hour, while they wait for a car.
Then why wouldn't they use the car that they came in?
Or do you think they transported their victim on the subway?
The good news is, we think there's prints on the .38.
If the guy that tossed it is in the system, we'll have his name in three days.
Well, if his prints are with AFIS, then it would be sooner than that, right? Like, tomorrow morning.
You didn't hear about the asbestos.
Lab's getting a face-lift.
They found asbestos in the ceiling.
So, they sent everybody home for a couple of days.
They're back in now, but there's a backlog, so our .38's gonna have to wait in line.
I mean, like... what exactly is Major Cases' interest here?
Isn't, like, a dead gangbanger a little, like, straightforward for you guys?
Slow week.
If there's anything we can do to be of assistance, please don't hesitate to contact us at the 11th.
Thoughts?
You first.
Shinwell is on parole.
Detective Cosa does not impress.
Think he's responsible?
I don't know.
I mean, SBK was his old g*ng.
And the last time I saw him, it... it went poorly.
How?
He threatened me.
Perhaps I will have a conversation with Detective Cosa after all.
No, I wasn't in any danger.
He's 170 pounds. He's six foot.
It wasn't real. I mean, the things he said to me, just... he just wanted to get me out of the way. I could tell.
Perhaps he wanted you out of the way so he could take out a rival.
No.
No. He didn't do this.
But how do you know that?
I just... I just do.
So, perhaps the description I overheard was of another person?
The cross pendant hanging on the fence?
It's a little harder to dismiss.
Has he responded to your text?
I told him I wanted to talk. I haven't heard back.
Just as well. 'Cause the conversation we're gonna have is better had in person.
Shinwell, it's Joan.
So, you don't think he k*lled Ricky Morales.
I also assume you don't think he's on the other side of that door, pointing a Nambu p*stol at us?
I mean, I can't guarantee it.
Wherever he is, he's left his phone.
Perhaps he's worried the police might use it to locate him.
Hmm?
Or he forgot it.
He also forgot to close those drawers, as one might do from when they're packing in a hurry.
His toolbox is gone. I gave it to him as a housewarming gift.
The sort of thing someone might sell if they were going on the lam.
On a scale from one to ten, how confident are you of his innocence now?
I just don't see him k*lling someone in cold blood.
I'm gonna call that a four.
Humor me. Pay a visit to the local pawn shops, see if he's been around. I'm humor you.
I'm gonna talk to his old friends in SBK.
See if they can shed some light on what happened last night.
SBK is a street g*ng. Why would they tell you about a sh**ting they may have been involved in?
The trick, Watson, is to not ask about the sh**ting.
Wait, now. This dude, who got held up around the way last night... he was a birthday clown?
That's right.
What the hell was a clown doing out at midnight in this neighborhood?
As I said, according to witnesses, he was getting mugged by someone who happens to fit your description.
He was relieved of $153 and a bag of balloons.
The NYPD would like to know if there's anyone who can account for your whereabouts.
I was with my boys. Will and Ray.
We watched the Knicks at a bar over on Dixon.
Went double O.T.
Lots of people to tell you.
Will Moultrie, Ray Franks?
Yeah. How do you know that?
Yo.
What's he grilling you on, D?
Big Mike had to answer for a cigarette truck went missing.
Terry got accused of busting a vending machine and jacking some off-brand Cheese Puffs.
Apparently, there was a real crime wave last night.
Laquan Eversley. “Tall Boy.”
You're an SBK lieutenant.
What the hell is a “Lef-tennant”.
Oh, it's like a lieutenant.
And you work for the police, right?
Yes.
So, what is this?
Why are you trying to trip us up on dirt that never happened?
My intention is not to implicate anyone in any fictitious crimes, I assure you.
You might also hear talk of a mime who got savagely beaten.
But, uh, pay that no heed.
I'm-a pay it all kinds of heed until you explain why you've been telling stories.
Because there's no need to lie when the truth will do.
Everyone I've spoken to has been only too happy to provide a web of overlapping alibis which can be cross-checked.
It's given me a snapshot of where your group's leadership was at the precise moment a member of Los Espectros was gunned down last night.
And the good news is, I'm starting starting to think that none of you pulled the trigger.
I could've told you that.
Now my cards are on the table, I'll be more direct.
Do any of you know anyone who owns a p*stol like this?
You're done asking questions here.
It would be very helpful.
You're done.
Or my next “alibi” is gonna be for when the British dude got curb stomped in front of Bennie's.
Thank you for your time, gentlemen.
Hey. It's me.
Shinwell did sell his toolbox and a few other items at a pawnshop near his building.
So, you were right.
He's on the run.
Call me when you can.
I need your help, Doc.
Something happened last night.
A member of a rival g*ng was shot and k*lled in SBK territory-- you were there, weren't you?
I didn't have nothin' to do with what happened to that man.
Next you're gonna tell me that you're not back with SBK.
It's not what you think.
Then what is it?
You want my help, right?
Here's your phone.
I got it from your apartment.
Call the police.
Tell them where you are.
Tell them you want to talk about what happened last night.
Call them, or I will.
Let me tell you a story.
If you don't believe it, just press “send.”
And I'll do anything you say.
Got your message.
Our conversations with SBK were enlightening, but I've got no insights as to Shinwell's current... whereabouts.
We need to talk.
That's apparent.
He was at the scene of Ricky Morales' m*rder last night.
Only I didn't k*ll him.
I think it's likely that you didn't.
And yet, you, crime scene, police pursuit, discarded handgun...
I can explain that.
I can explain, too.
You're back in SBK.
More than enough reason to wash our hands of him, no?
No.
I'm not back in SBK
'cause I want to be.
I'm back in because I was asked to be.
I'm an informant for the FBI.
I'd only been out of prison a few days.
No job yet, just a room in a halfway house.
I was walking back from the store one night, and this dude rolled up on me in a car.
He showed me his badge.
You said his name was Whitlock.
Agent Whitlock.
He said he was keeping an eye on me when I was in Great Meadow.
He said he knew that I was distancing myself from the dudes I used to roll with.
Said he knew I got out on good behavior.
And he said, “Imagine how much good you can do if you help bring down SBK from the inside.”
And this is around the time that, uh, I came to see you.
To ask you how can I change.
Well, I told Whitlock I was in.
I reached out to old friends, told them I can't make ends meet, that I was unhappy.
So they threw work my way.
What kind of work?
Collecting for them.
Keeping an eye on some things.
Whitlock was happy.
The only thing I didn't count on was you realizing that I was back in.
That's why I told you to stay away, because I didn't want you to get caught up in this.
If you didn't k*ll Morales, who did?
I don't know.
As far as I can tell, SBK don't have nothin' to do with it.
The way I heard it, a kid heard sh*ts.
He went snooping around, he found a body.
He called his brother, Marquis.
He's SBK.
Word went all the way up to the top.
If the body found on our territory, that would have been a lot of heat.
Well, that would tally with what I was able to gather.
You and Tall Boy were in a club.
He got a text around half past midnight.
You both left.
You went to dispose of the body.
That's why you were at the scene almost an hour after the m*rder took place.
Yeah, the police showed up right after we did.
But we ran.
Which one of you threw the g*n?
Me.
Tall Boy gave it to me weeks ago.
He said If I was gonna roll with SBK, I had to be strapped up.
So I took it to Whitlock, and I told him I didn't want it.
He said it would be too suspicious if I didn't keep it.
So when the prints are lifted, that'll give the police probable cause for your arrest.
Possession of a handgun is a violation of your parole.
The good news is, there's a logjam at the lab, so the g*n can't be processed for another 72 hours.
It's more than enough time to do what we need.
What we need?
Shinwell and Whitlock never spoke over the phone.
They only met in person.
So every meeting ended with a plan for the next one.
Date, time, and place.
The problem is they're not meeting again until next week.
We can't wait that long, so I called Whitlock to make an appointment to see him.
That's why I'm here.
To ask one of you to talk to him.
He can make all this go away.
Get a subpoena for the g*n, something.
Just keep my name out of it.
And then?
And then me and him will go back to doing what we were doing.
Bringing down SBK.
Miss Watson.
Calvin Whitlock.
It's nice to meet you.
Yes.
Message I got said you caught a red ball?
The Ricky Morales sh**ting, right?
That's right.
Thing is, I don't work Ricky's g*ng, Los Espectros.
But I'd be happy to sit you down with one of my colleagues, Agent Reese.
Actually, that won't be necessary.
I wasn't completely honest when I said I wanted to talk about Ricky.
I'm here on behalf of a mutual friend, Shinwell Johnson.
Why don't we take this to my office?
I told him to be careful with that g*n.
Truth is, I was more worried about you.
Me?
Yeah.
I knew he was spending time with you.
I figured once SBK found out he had made friends with a consultant for the NYPD...
Look, how certain are we that these prints are gonna turn up?
He was running when he threw the g*n away.
His hands were sweaty.
I'm sorry, but I can't help you.
Excuse me?
If the cops trace that g*n back to Shinwell, he's gonna have to face the consequences.
What are you talking about?
He's your informant.
A couple of years ago, I recruited another informant, bad guy.
Pulled him over one night, he had two as*ault r*fles in his trunk.
And like Shinwell, he was on parole, so we cut a deal.
If he kept me up to speed on his g*ng, he didn't have to go back to prison.
Well, about a year later I find out this guy was playing me.
Keeping back information, giving me half-truths.
People were dying because he and his homies would...
So I paid him a visit, put him in the hospital.
Then he got another deal, this time from my bosses.
If he kept quiet about what I did, then they would cut him loose.
But there was a catch.
I was stripped of my authorization to recruit informants.
Are you telling me that you recruited Shinwell, but you never registered him?
SBK is one of the deadliest gangs in all of New York City.
They have a body count in the hundreds.
I did what I had to do.
You can't do this.
You have to help him.
I'm sorry, but I don't.
Any information that he gathered, anything he did for me was completely off the books.
He can shout my name from the rooftops, won't help him.
If you don't do something, he's gonna be sent back to prison.
That's a shame.
Yeah, it is, 'cause I like the guy.
But I'm not gonna throw away my career for him.
You tell Shinwell he's on his own.
No, this is some bull. Whitlock wanna play me like that?
I'm gonna go and talk to him.
Make it real clear that we know each other.
Can you prove a connection between the two of you?
Then you'll probably just be arrested.
I'm gonna get arrested if I don't go.
At least that way I get to beat his a*s.
I ain't gonna let him do this to me.
Not after all I been through.
Not after all the work I've done!
I was just starting to get it right this time.
I know you were.
How could he do this to me?
With great ease, I imagine.
On paper, you're utterly disposable.
You're an ex-con, you're penniless, sullied, disenfranchised.
Okay.
You tell me, what do I do?
You have two problems.
The first is that your prints were left on a w*apon which was discarded at the scene of a sh**ting.
Second is that once those prints are analyzed, you'll become a suspect in that sh**ting.
Thanks to Agent Whitlock, there's currently very little to be done about problem one.
Problem two, on the other hand...
You didn't k*ll Ricky Morales.
We just have to find the person who did.
Oh, that's all?
Well, respectfully, it's as mundane a task as Watson and I have ever faced as detectives.
And thanks to a lab only recently cleared of asbestos, we now have 60-something hours to accomplish it, which is probably 50-something more than we'll need.
Ricky Morales was a gangster.
Who kills gangsters?
Other gangsters.
Ricky was shot in SBK territory.
I already told you...
You don't believe they're responsible.
I think that there's a good chance that you're right.
Ask yourself, who would go out of their way to m*rder a member of Los Espectros on a hated rival's turf?
More specifically, who could get them there without any sign of a struggle?
Another member of Los Espectros.
You think they tried to frame SBK?
As you pointed out, it would bring SBK lots of unwanted attention from the police.
Could be.
Could be, also, somebody in Los Espectros wanting to start a w*r with SBK.
By making it look like we k*lled Ricky, it could force the issue.
Either way, I think Los Espectros is the next g*ng that we should look at, don't you?
I'll go down to the precinct.
I'll dig up what I can on them.
I'll turn my attention to Ricky.
If he was lured to that vacant lot by someone, they might have left a trail.
What about me?
All due respect, but I don't want to just sit here.
Not when it's my life on the line.
How can I help?
You're nervous.
No.
Yes, you are.
Don't be.
Tell me, how am I not gonna be nervous when you just broke in this car?
It's the best view of the apartment that Ricky Morales shared with his girlfriend.
Also, it smells like fresh bread.
Fresh artisanal bread.
There's residue on the steering wheel.
There's traces of flour and yeast.
The owner of this car is a baker.
They work at night.
The engine was still warm when we arrived.
Our baker got home a short while ago, presumably to sleep, so... the chances of us being discovered are slim.
You think?
Yesterday you outran two police officers.
You really can't escape one sleepy baker?
So we wait for the girlfriend to leave the apartment, and then what, hmm, we break in there, too?
Mm-hmm.
I didn't think proving my innocence of one crime would lead to a bunch of others.
Can't make an omelet.
So why'd you do it?
Do what?
Start working for Agent Whitlock?
Once upon a time, SBK were your family.
You went to prison for them.
And then, ten years later, he offers you nothing more than a vague opportunity to do some good.
And you accept.
Why?
Prison changed me.
Yeah, I'm familiar with the concept of change.
I mean, you didn't just... walk away from your old life.
You ran at it full-bore.
Intent, as far as I can tell, on destroying it.
Ten years ago, after I got popped, the D.A. offered me a deal.
Go back to SBK, wear a wire, get them something good, and they'd cut my time in half.
I told them what they can do with that wire.
It's just like you said.
SBK was my family, they brought me in, got me stuff I couldn't get on my own.
Pretty soon after that, I was doing that for other guys.
I brought them in, taught them what they needed to know.
And then I got locked up.
It wasn't long before some of the guys I brought in were doing time right next to me.
And hen the guys they brought in.
And then the guys those guys brought in.
And then it hit me.
SBK didn't care.
It's just like what you said before.
We were all disposable.
But we're not.
It's time to go.
What, exactly, are we looking for?
Our current theory is that Ricky was betrayed by a member of his own g*ng.
We need to try and identify someone specific.
Mm.
Yo, over here.
It says, “Midnight betrayed by Gustavo.”
That's a clue, right?
Is that the kind of intelligence you would give to Agent Whitlock?
I don't know why he never registered you.
Ricky or his girl's into benzos.
Well, these were his.
And they're not recreational, there's a prescription.
“MO,” Morales.
“ZX, 8:00 a.m.”
That “X” is where the doctor's name's supposed to be.
So we have a prescription for clonazepam, and we have a regular appointment with a doctor, if that's the “X.”
Perhaps our dead gangster was in therapy.
Wait till you get to May.
Detective Cosa.
What are you doing here?
I thought I'd take advantage of your partner's offer to help with the Morales m*rder.
Of course, what can we do?
Well, actually, you already did it.
I just got out of a meeting with your captain, told me you guys came down to my scene this morning 'cause you were bored.
He didn't seem too surprised.
I don't understand.
Were you asking him to assign the case to someone in the squad?
No, I just asked him to fast-track the .38 for fingerprint analysis.
He made a call and, boom.
Lab said they'd have it tomorrow.
So, thanks, I guess.
For being bored.
You're welcome.
So you don't deny knowing Ricky Morales?
No, nor do I confirm knowing him.
Dr. Xanthopoulos, are you aware you are the only medical professional in the entire tri-state area with the initials “Z.X.?”
Bully for me.
Ricky Morales had a regular appointment with a Z.X.; he also had a prescription for clonazepam.
I'm not saying I was his therapist, but if I was, doctor-patient confidentiality would prevent me from sharing any of the details of his treatment.
He's dead.
I'm pretty sure he won't sue.
My 1:00 will be here soon, so if you don't mind...
In all of my years as a detective, I have yet to find a criminal organization that appreciates its members seeing a psychiatrist.
There's just too many... secrets at risk.
So what if Ricky was k*lled by someone in Los Espectros who discovered he'd been spending time on your couch?
It might not be long before you're paid a visit.
Is that what you think happened?
I'm not saying I do, but if I did, it would behoove you to tell us everything that you know about Ricky and his friends.
Would it not?
Despite his background, Ricky was a very sensitive young man.
He started coming to see me six months ago.
Accelerated heart rate, dizziness, shortness of breath.
He was having panic att*cks.
That's what the clonazepam was for.
What made him so scared?
Was he worried about somebody in Los Espectros?
Actually, he was worried about everyone in Los Espectros.
A few months before he started seeing me, he got caught with a kilo of heroin in the trunk of his car.
In order to avoid prosecution, he agreed to become an informant.
He was ratting on his g*ng.
Did he think anyone in particular had caught on to him?
He didn't. And, in a way, that was the root of his anxiety.
He wasn't having panic att*cks because he was afraid for his life, he was having them because he felt guilty.
He was betraying the people that he loved.
He tried talking about it to the agent who recruited him, Whitlock, but he didn't care.
Calvin Whitlock?
Yeah, he's an FBI agent.
Do you know him?
As a matter of fact, we do.
Didn't you get my message?
I got it.
Did you read it?
I specifically asked for anything other than pizza.
Well, you never responded to my text either.
“Saw Cosa at the precinct.
Gregson fast-tracking print analysis.”
If we don't solve Ricky Morales' m*rder before the police identify Shinwell's prints...
You don't need to worry about us not solving it.
We have maybe 12 hours.
You're that confident?
I am. I already know who k*lled Ricky Morales.
Agent Calvin Whitlock of the FBI.
I don't see a lot of proof.
Don't get me wrong, I like your little... art project.
Can't be a coincidence that Ricky was in Whitlock's employ.
During World w*r II, Whitlock's grandfather served in the Pacific.
He would easily have picked up a Nambu p*stol off a Japanese soldier.
Why k*ll Ricky with a family heirloom?
'Cause it wouldn't be registered.
You couldn't prove it belonged to Whitlock.
Tell her about his surprise visit to your apartment.
A few weeks back, he let himself in.
I came through the door, and all of a sudden, there was a g*n to the back of my head.
His way of telling me to do a better job of hiding the .38 I got from Tall Boy.
What's his motive?
Perhaps he wanted out of the arrangement.
Perhaps he threatened to expose Whitlock.
If it wasn't Whitlock, got to be Los Espectros.
I mean, they found out he was a snitch and capped him.
Well, that doesn't make any sense either.
I've been reading about them all day.
They t*rture traitors before they k*ll them, and they always do it on their own turf.
They want other members to see what happens when someone double-crosses the g*ng.
Ricky died quick and painless.
And nowhere near Los Espectros territory.
Well, maybe it's like what I said before.
That they wanted to frame SBK.
Honestly, I don't think they would've risked it.
I mean, getting caught could've kicked off a w*r, and they can't afford that right now.
Membership on the decline, is it?
More like under attack.
There was a robbery last month.
Los Espectros got hit when they were handing money over to their money launderer.
I heard about that.
A lot of their boys got shot.
And the crew that took 'em down made off with six figures.
Yeah. They're too busy licking their wounds right now to pick a fight with anyone.
So, allow me to resubmit the obvious candidate: Agent Whitlock.
Okay. Same question.
Why do it in SBK territory?
He could've k*lled Ricky anywhere.
Instead, he chooses a vacant lot where the sh*ts can be heard.
How is that a smart plan?
I got to go.
Something more pressing than your imminent m*rder charge?
Tall Boy want to see me.
Why would you go see him right now?
Do I have a choice?
Of course you have a choice.
You only got involved with SBK again to help bring them down.
That is over.
If I don't go, there might be consequences.
There might be consequences if you do go.
Look, Tall Boy knows you dropped that .38.
Just like he knows your prints are in the system.
As far as SBK is concerned, you might be a loose end.
When I got sent up ten years ago, I didn't flip on nobody.
Why would they think I'd start now?
Say Sherlock is right.
There's an FBI agent out there who doesn't want it getting out that he uses CIs off the books, and he's willing to k*ll to keep it quiet.
He doesn't have to do his own dirty work.
He just has to tell your friends that you're an informant.
You know this could be a trap.
They know about Chivonne.
They know about my daughter.
If they can't find me, they might go looking for her.
And I'm not gonna let that happen.
Yo. Shin.
Tall Boy ain't up there.
Where he at?
Big Mike.
Word up.
Shin.
We been lookin' for you.
Been laying low.
You?
That craziness last night?
I got out there clean.
Wish I could say the same for you.
Not too smart, Shin.
Chucking your g*n like that.
Wouldn't have if I'd known I was gonna get away.
Ain't nothin' to trip on, though.
I've been keeping a close watch on my place.
If the police knew the .38 was mine, they would've been by already.
Well, try to hold on to this one.
They don't grow on trees.
Hey, go on. Take it.
Thanks.
It ain't a gift, Shin.
It's a loan. You and me got work to do.
What kind of work?
Serve and protect kind.
15th of the month coming up.
Time for the drop.
With that dead boy next to the Jewelry Mart, word come down it's too hot to do business there.
So, we got to bail out to the backup spot.
Check-cashing place on Greely?
Yeah, it'll be all right, but it ain't locked down like the J-Mart.
We get caught, we got to come ready.
Yo, Shin.
We cool?
Yeah, we cool.
You okay?
Good. Really good, actually.
Your partner's right.
Whitlock k*lled Ricky.
And I know why he did it in SBK territory.
Agent Whitlock, we need to talk about Shinwell.
I don't know that name.
You're worried I'm recording this conversation.
I'm not.
If it'll make you feel better, I can do most of the talking.
You lied when you said that you keep your informants off the books because of some disciplinary action.
You had to, because you're not gathering Intel to bring the gangs down, you're gathering Intel to rip them off.
You use your CIs to find out when the gangs move their money.
And then you ambush them and then you rob them blind.
Follow me.
You know, it's funny.
I heard your partner was the one who did too many dr*gs.
Shinwell said you pressed him hard on SBK money drops.
He told you they happened at a jewelry mart up in the Bronx, but that place is set up like a fortress.
So when there is a drop, SBK has guards and spotters at every entrance and exit.
No once can get within a thousand feet.
So, Shinwell told you there was a drop coming up.
So, yesterday, you shot and k*lled someone in a vacant lot next door.
You knew that with police crawling all over, SBK would have to find a new and less secure location.
Then, you get the details from Shinwell, and then you and your team would swing into action.
I have a team now?
Four gangs have been robbed.
The assailants have been the same every time.
Three masked men, heavily armed and armored.
Their last target was Los Espectros.
Now, Los Espectros thought it was a rival g*ng, but it wasn't; it was you and two of your friends.
You knew when and where to strike, thanks to your inside man, Ricky Morales.
Never heard of him, but this is fun.
Keep going.
You left a wounded g*ng member behind.
He told police that one of your guys took a b*llet in the arm.
So they checked local hospitals for people who were treated for g*nsh*t wounds.
They didn't find any, but my partner and I cast a wider net.
Lionel Trafoya, was treated for an arm wound in Northern New Jersey.
Says here he was mugged.
That was his story.
Now, I'm pretty sure his DNA is gonna be a match for the blood found at the scene of the robbery.
Now, Trafoya used to work here, with you.
He resigned in 2013-- something about, uh, evidence going missing at a narcotics raid.
He's talking to a Detective Cosa right now.
He might not give you up, but then again, you know how easy it is for criminals to turn on their friends.
What's the out?
You're telling me this because there's an out.
You want something.
Cosa doesn't know about Shinwell yet.
I want you to tell her.
You don't want to be the one to put him at the scene yesterday.
You want me to admit that he's hanging with SBK again, because of me?
Don't forget about the g*n.
He only had that because of you.
Explain that and my partner and I will do everything we can to see that you're offered a deal that keeps you out of gen pop when you go to prison.
Given your history with g*ng members, you might not want to be locked up with any.
Go to hell.
For when you change your mind.
That didn't take long.
I'm a good agent.
I want you to know that.
99% of what I do, it's clean.
I put bad guys away, I keep people safe.
Except for the ones you rob and m*rder.
Look, it...
...it started off small.
You know, just taking a little bit off the top, stealing from criminals.
How is that even wrong?
Then I got in deeper and deeper.
I've spent years looking over my shoulder, waiting for this thing to come home.
Now, it's over.
So, in a way, you-- you did me a favor.
So now, I'm gonna do you a favor.
So what, you're gonna talk to the police?
No. No.
I won't.
That's the favor.
You got Shinwell wrong.
You see, he's... he's a banger.
Bangers are bangers for life.
He'll be better off when he goes back to prison.
He's not going back to prison.
Yes, he is.
When those prints come back from the .38, that'll be that.
You want the g*n that k*lled Ricky?
It's all yours.
You just have to come by my office and get it.
Agent Whitlock?
If it wasn't for bad luck, huh?
I'm sorry.
What about Whitlock's accomplice?
Lionel Trafoya, surely he was aware that Whitlock was recruiting informants under false pretenses.
If I had to guess, I'd say he was, but Detective Cosa called a little while ago, she said she couldn't get him to talk, he lawyered up.
There was a third member of the team Whitlock assembled to rob street gangs.
If he's smart, he's on his way out of the country by now.
That's quitter's talk.
No, reality.
You did what you could and I'm grateful, but it's over.
If Whitlock was telling the truth about the g*n he used to k*ll himself, then the b*ll*ts would be a match for the ones that k*lled Ricky Morales.
That takes care of that.
But the .38 is still out there.
If it gets traced back to you...
If?
Come on, the prints are there, Doc.
I'm as good as violated.
We'll both be in your corner.
And we'll get you the best lawyer we can.
All due respect, I don't want to get into all that right now.
What do you want to do?
The way I see it, I got one day before I have to go back to prison.
Maybe less.
I want to make the most of it.
What the hell are you doing, man?
Sorry, I was, uh--
I was reviewing the, um, cases you've been assigned since I was away, I've been away for 48 hours.
Hadn't you noticed?
Matter of fact, I did notice.
We all did, it was a scary time.
We weren't sure we could keep this whole “law and order” thing going, but you're back now, thank God.
Since when is a stolen pet a major case?
Since its owner is a close personal friend of the mayor's, that's when.
Do you mind?
Sorry.
I was hoping to find a distraction.
Did you say “find” or “cause”?
Your brother, Andre, he's an ex-con, right?
What's that have to do with anything?
So, from what I understand, he's been doing very well since he got out, right?
He's staying on the straight and narrow, yes?
He's got a job, his own place, yeah, he's doing good. Why?
What do you think would happen if he went back to prison?
I think my mom's heart would break.
No, what if he went back not because he committed a new crime, but because of a mistake?
Because of a technicality?
Do you think all of his hard work would be for nothing?
Would he revert back to the man he was?
In about ten seconds.
You want to tell me why you're asking?
This is you making the most of your last day, is it?
Miss Raquel lives just underneath, 82-years-old.
She told me a couple days ago she had a leak in her ceiling.
I didn't feel right going to prison without fixing it.
Got your tools back, I see.
Yep.
Man at the pawnshop didn't even charge me interest.
Maybe my luck is starting to change.
Just got back from the lab.
Your prints were on the .38.
So you came here to break the news to me in person?
Nah, I came here to give you this.
What is it?
It's the cloth I used to wipe the g*n.
Hadn't been processed yet.
When it is, there won't be any prints on it.
How did you...
The less you know about that, the better.
It's your second second chance.
Do make the most of it.