Source URL: https://transcripts.foreverdreaming.org/./viewtopic.php?t=34264

Previously onElementary...
My name is Sherlock, and I'm an addict.
Mr.
Johnson, I presume?
Call me Shinwell.
So, a former drug dealer, correct?
Former drug user.
You're sleeping.
Hmm?
You never sleep.
Are you okay?
Whatever excuse you have, it isn't good enough.
It hasn't been good enough for weeks.
I forgot.
You forgot?
You?!
Are you kidding me?!
Tell me where you are.
I'm close, Sherlock.
[grunting]
Sorry about last night.
You really didn't do anything.
It was me.
You're not well.
Why do you look like my mother?
I'm the part of you that wants to get better.
Mr.
Holmes?
I'm ready for you now.
[elevator bell chimes]
We've talked about this.
You don't get to go on the ride till it's your turn.
When it's my turn, I won't really get  the full experience.
Oh, you want the full experience.
Stay there, I'll get my scalpel.
What happened?
Oh, I tore my Achilles.
Softball.
You'd figure somebody in my line of work  would appreciate how fragile  our bodies really are.
So,  to what do I owe the pleasure?
Just waiting for some test results.
From me?
Oh, no, someone else.
And the reason you're waiting on my table  instead of one in your house?
My mother's ghost recently  set a room on fire, so I've been doing  most of my thinking elsewhere.
Fine, don't tell me.
[phone ringing]
Sherlock Holmes.
Thank you.
I'll be right there.
Holmes?
Something I can help with?
Not yet.
But if an autopsy is in the offing,  I should know soon enough.
[elevator bell chimes]
[breathing heavily, chuckling]
[kissing]
Damn it.
[whoosh sound effect]
[crickets chirping]
[footsteps crunching]
What the hell?
♪  Hey.
Have you seen Sherlock?
No.
Everything all right?
Well, he didn't come home last night  and he hasn't returned my calls.
Maybe he met someone.
Or, knowing him, someone,  her two friends and their pet tiger.
[sighs]
Didn't know you were coming in today.
You here for a case?
No case.
I'm meeting some new clients.
The captain said I could use the conference room.
Sophie Bishop and her husband.
This about the sex tape?
Well, I read about it.
Someone put it up on the Internet  without her permission-- she's ticked off.
All I know is they need help finding someone.
[elevator bell chimes]
Don't pretend you haven't seen her naked.
Everyone's seen her naked.
Not that I would lead with that  if I introduce you.
SOPHIE: His name's Sammy Olivetti.
His info's all there, too.
So this is the man in the video?
Yeah.
[door opens]
Ms.
Bishop, Mr.
Hayes.
I'm Sherlock Holmes.
Apologies for being late.
Didn't get the message that my partner left  until a short while ago.
Vernon Fisk.
I'm Ryan and Sophie's attorney.
Yes.
Please continue.
Uh, Sammy played bass for a band called the Pompeii Worms.
They were hot for a second in 2012.
We were pretty intense for a while.
And that's when you made the video, five years ago?
Yeah.
Until all this, we'd barely spoken in years,  mostly 'cause I got clean before he did.
But we were supposed to meet him this morning,  and he never showed up.
I'm confused.
Isn't he the one  who posted the video online?
I know that's what the news said,  but it isn't true.
The day the tape showed up on the Internet,  Sammy called me-- he was up in arms.
He said that someone had broken into his place  a few days before, and there was a copy of the tape  with the stuff they took.
RYAN: He was fighting with the Web site to take it down.
And he was trying to find out who posted it.
Our meeting this morning was to...
to talk about legal action.
I imagine that arguing for tangible damages,  in this case, might be a challenge, wouldn't it?
I mean, respectfully,  you were the tabloids darling  for many years...
and given your antics on the club scene,  your propensity for flashing the paparazzi,  I think modesty might be, uh, an option  that you forfeited some time ago.
You're wrong about the damages not being tangible.
I mean, the release of this video  has cost my clients  a virtual king's ransom.
Now, understand, before Sophie's grandfather died,  he placed the bulk of his real estate holdings in a trust,  and he left strict instructions  regarding Sophie's eligibility  for her share.
Now, one was  that she had to get clean and stay clean.
And, two, if she was ever an embarrassment  to her family again,  she'd be cut out.
RYAN: Thanks to this tape,  the other trustees-- her brother, her aunts,  the trust lawyer--  they've triggered that clause.
SOPHIE: I don't care about the money.
I-I worked hard to make amends,  so I do care that someone's ruining that,  and I'd like to know who and why.
But I'm here because I'm worried about Sammy.
WATSON: Mr.
Hayes, I have to ask.
A former lover of your wife's  comes back into your lives.
A video surfaces of them having sex.
How does that make you feel?
You know, I knew I was marrying Sophie Bishop.
[chuckles]
I never knew her in her Page Six days,  but we met after she got clean,  and...
we don't have any secrets.
We've shared every detail  of each other's histories with one another.
She told me about the tape years ago.
I told her I may have made a tape or two in my day.
Did we think any of these would ever  end up online?
No, but...
it is what it is.
Sammy was trying to make things right.
Now we can't find him.
Did you check his home?
We thought of that.
We, uh, went to the house.
The landlady, actually, let us in-- he wasn't there.
Yeah, the cops won't do anything.
They say Sammy's a grown man, and it hasn't even been  a full day, but I'm telling you  this isn't like him.
Something's happened.
Please help.
Well, I suppose I'll see which mobile carrier  services this number, see if I can persuade  one of my contacts to ping Mr.
Olivetti's phone.
That's great.
In the meantime,  you can finally tell me what happened to the guest room.
You're right, I owe you an explanation.
Yeah.
Uh, for personal and professional reasons,  I'd rather not have that discussion here.
I bet you wouldn't.
You know,  you've been acting like such a jerk  since Shinwell died.
And when I called you on it, what was your response?
Avoiding me for weeks.
Watson.
No, we're not doing this on your terms.
You want to talk, that's fine.
There's an open room right here.
I'm not well.
I'll tell you everything,  just not here.
Six weeks ago,  I experienced my first symptom--  a headache.
It's unusual for me, but it's not unheard of,  so I dismissed it.
More symptoms followed-- bouts of dizziness,  memory loss, sensitivity to noise and bright lights,  uncharacteristic need for sleep.
The headaches grew more frequent  and more painful.
And I did all of that in the throes  of a particularly vivid hallucination.
I'm a doctor.
You could have told me.
Well, I thought it would pass.
It didn't.
So, eventually I went for an MRI.
And?
It was negative.
That is to say, there were no, um,  no abnormal structures, no bleeds, no tumors.
Imagine the indignity of being told that my brain is normal.
So, more tests followed.
Other scans, X-rays, blood tests,  all to rule out the various diseases  which could account for my symptoms.
And all were negative.
Well, what do they think the problem is?
I have something called post-concussion syndrome.
PCS.
Are you familiar?
Shinwell, when he hit you with that bottle.
That was likely the final straw.
But many of my life choices leading up to this moment  are likely factors-- the boxing,  the continually putting myself in harm's way...
heroin.
All of them have likely contributed to this moment.
So, as for what to expect,  the doctor is loath to make any promises.
Things could get worse before they get better.
He's putting together a regimen to aid in my recovery,  but, uh...
whether that recovery takes weeks or months  or, uh...
if I'll even get better at all...
he couldn't say.
Stand up.
Excuse me?
Stand up.
My personality hasn't changed, Watson.
[phone chimes]
It's my contact at the cell phone company.
He says Sammy Olivetti's cell phone never left his house.
Thanks.
We'll let you know when we're done.
So, I pulled the report  on the break-in that Sophie told us about.
Whoever did it kicked the door until it opened.
You can still see the repairs.
The deadbolt wasn't engaged at the time.
If it had been...
there'd be much more damage.
Well, Sammy told the police that he hardly ever used it.
You can tell.
The paint suggests it's been here for years,  but, um, there's very little wear.
You'd think he would have developed better habits  after being burglarized.
Yeah, well, Sammy's brain was not the organ he was known for.
Do you smell that?
A plastic.
Phthalate.
A chemical compound  off-gassed by new plastic, quite a lot of it.
I don't see a source.
So, you didn't want to talk  about your diagnosis at the precinct,  and I assume that's because you don't want the captain to know?
He already knows I'm a recovering drug addict.
I don't want to tell him I'm also recovering  from brain trauma.
What, you're worried he might bench you?
Well, it's actually none of his concern.
My diagnosis is my diagnosis.
So I'll deal with it the same way I would any other problem.
I have to say,  you're taking it really well.
What is it?
There's tape residue.
There's no dust, so it's still fresh.
Here.
That's why we smell plastic.
Someone covered the walls with it.
And the floor.
♪  I'd say that was blood,  wouldn't you?
Yeah.
And I'd say Sophie Bishop was right  to be worried about her ex.
[phone rings]
Hello.
[filtered voice]: Is this Sherlock Holmes?
It is.
I'm aware of the matter you're looking into.
I'm aware of you, your reputation.
Sophie Bishop and Ryan Hayes are paying you your rate  to find their friend.
I'll pay you $1 million to walk away.
It's an interesting offer.
I'm just gonna put you on hold  while I discuss it with my partner.
Who are you texting?
I'd say $1 million was a bit low, wouldn't you?
What?
Hello?
Yes.
She's interested,  but she thinks that you can do better.
We want $5 million.
Five?
I just texted you the number  of an account I maintain for these situations.
Wire the money, we'll drop the case.
But wait...
Okay, you said that you've been experiencing hallucinations?
Is that what's happening right now?
Do I look like I'm hallucinating?
What the hell did you just do?
[phone beeps]
I just made us $5 million.
You took a bribe?
$5 million.
$5 million?
He initially offered one,  but I nudged him up to five.
You're messing with me.
That's not even our personal record.
You might recall that Taiwanese operatives  once offered us $50 million  to insure the Imperial Jade Seal ended up in their hands  and not China's.
Yeah, I remember you turned them down, but you didn't  turn down the guy who called yesterday.
I assumed, correctly, that he was calling from a burner phone.
Accepting his bribe has given us another  potential opportunity to identify him,  and that's why I'm here.
This is the account that the money was transferred to.
I'd ask that you set CCS to the task  of tracking it back to its source.
Any luck, it'll be enough to identify our k*ller.
We don't even know if Sammy Olivetti is dead.
There's no body.
There's no plastic sheeting, either, but I'm confident  that a few hundred square foot of it  was used to splatter-proof his living room.
You don't put that much tarp down to give a man a haircut.
There's also the blood that we found  and the small matter of the $5 million.
If Mr.
Olivetti isn't dead, he's doing a very good impression.
I'll let you know what CCS turns up.
You gonna be working here?
No.
I'm gonna pay a visit to the man  who's most likely to have lined my pockets.
[door closes]
Mr.
Bishop.
Hi, my name's Sherlock Holmes.
I'm a detective.
I've been hired by your sister.
Who let you in here?
I think his name was Tyrone.
Yes, Tyrone.
Gave me his hat.
I convinced him I was an inspector  with the buildings department.
I do actually see a number of code violations.
But I'd much rather talk to you about  your sister's missing ex-boyfriend.
Look, you...
It's okay, it's okay.
I'll-I'll  catch up with you in a minute.
My sister has a lot of ex-boyfriends.
Which one is missing?
Sammy Olivetti.
Tall, tattoos,  phallus to make a Clydesdale blush.
The one from the tape.
The one from the tape.
Yeah.
Two nights ago, he vanished.
[chuckles]
And you think I had something to do with that?
What, he besmirched my sister, so I took my revenge?
My sister's a drug addict.
And a whore.
A tape like that surfacing-- just a matter of time.
Sammy was looking for the person who stole the sex tape  and put it online.
Was it you?
Yesterday someone offered me  $5 million to stop looking for Sammy Olivetti.
That's just a drop in the ocean to a man like you.
Yeah, yeah, it is.
But, unlike my sister,  I actually care about the Bishop name.
I know she claims to be "embarrassed" by that tape,  but I assure you, no one was more embarrassed than my family.
The proliferation of the tape resulted in her removal  from the family trust.
That meant more money for you.
She ended up with nothing.
Before I have you thrown out of here on your a*s,  I think there's a few things that you need to understand.
[loud construction noise]
One, Sophie hardly left with nothing.
[muffled]: And the $3 million she was getting each year...
[noise continuing]
[high-pitched tone humming]
Hey.
What the hell is wrong with you?
Hey.
Are you even listening to me?
Hey!
Hey!
You're sure someone hurt Sammy?
No, we're not sure.
But the evidence we found at his house  is hard to ignore.
It's even harder to ignore  that someone was willing to pay us $5 million  to look the other way.
It wasn't my brother.
Sophie...
No, I-I know Drew and I have had problems in the past,  but it wasn't him.
He wouldn't do this.
He's a creep, but he's not a k*ller.
If we're right about him, he didn't set out to k*ll Sammy;  he did it because Sammy was on his trail.
No, and I-I don't want you and your partner telling people that  you think Drew did this.
I've embarrassed my family enough.
Let's talk about your family.
If Drew didn't do this, is there anyone else  you can think of who might have...
What part of  "I don't want to embarrass my family"  do you not understand?
The night that Sammy disappeared,  he sent an e-mail to a video sharing site  where your tape first appeared.
He'd been trying for weeks  to get information to help identify the person  who posted it.
I followed up with them this morning.
All they could tell me was that the video  was uploaded at a coffee shop  in New Brunswick, New Jersey called the Buzz House.
Does that mean anything to you?
Sophie?
No.
No, I'm sorry, it doesn't mean anything.
Uh...
thanks for coming out here.
If anything else comes up, you have my info.
HOLMES: Well, I've always rebelled at stagnation.
So, a little over a year ago,  I-I, uh, I sat in a room just like this one  and I said that I was, I was bored.
I'd grown tired of meetings.
Uh, just-just tired of the daily task of staying sober.
I'd come to believe that in order for me  to stay committed to my sobriety,  I-I needed to challenge it.
So...
I stopped going to meetings, and...
I put myself into situations that I shouldn't have.
Recently, events have conspired to, uh,  give me all of the challenges I could ever need.
Um, and boredom is a, is a, is a distant memory.
Guess the old adage is true, isn't it?
Careful what you wish for.
Hey, uh, Sherlock?
I'm sorry I didn't get to speak in there.
Hey, uh, my name's Michael.
Hello.
You probably wouldn't remember me,  but, uh, we used to go to some of the same meetings.
Um, the last time I saw you at one was  four years, ten months and 16 days ago.
That's very strangely specific.
Yeah.
Uh, it's actually the last time I used.
Um, you know, I was new to it back then,  and the meetings weren't helping, nothing made sense.
But then I heard you speak one night, and it really helped.
Oh, what did I say?
"My mind is like a racing engine,  "tearing itself to pieces, because it's not connected up  to the work for which it was built."  Sorry.
I actually wrote that down.
But you talked about rehab and how you struggled there,  and you said you were made for one thing,  and being away from it made staying sober almost impossible.
But when you got out, you went back to it,  and that made all the difference.
So I actually decided to do the same thing,  you know, focus on my work, use it to get better.
Four years, ten months, 16 days later...
I worked hard, but, uh...
it started with you.
Glad to hear you're doing well.
Hey, the challenge you were talking about in there--  uh, have you talked to your sponsor about it?
Actually between sponsors at the moment.
Well, look, if you ever need someone to talk to, uh,  call me.
You helped me.
Maybe I could return the favor.
Thanks.
[door opens]
Hey, did you see the text from the captain?
Yup.
CCS was able  to trace our bribe to an anonymous,  off-shore account and no further.
So, it's as much a dead end  as the burner phone used to contact us.
How'd it go with Sophie's brother?
We had a rather one-sided conversation  at one of his construction sites.
What do you mean?
I mean, it was noisy there.
It was so noisy, in fact,  that by the time he finally had something interesting to say,  I experienced a piercing headache  and a ringing in my ears which rendered me virtually deaf.
Couldn't hear a word he said.
The PCS?
Yeah, perhaps, yes.
Well, I'll...
I'll go see him myself tomorrow.
Well, I said I couldn't hear him.
I didn't say I couldn't understand what he said.
So you read his lips?
He confirmed  that his sister was cut out of the family trust,  but he also claimed that her expulsion triggered a buyout.
A buyout?
Grandpa Bishop, it seems,  thought that sending Sophie straight to the gutter  would bring even more shame upon the family,  so instead, he devised a punishment  which would only be understood  by the top one percent of the top one percent.
Instead of her receiving $3 million every year  for the rest of her life, as well  as a continued stake in the family interests,  she receive a one-time buyout  of $60 million.
Her brother said he was in the process of trying  to annul that clause when the sex tape first surfaced online.
I confirmed that.
So, if he had been the one who stole the tape...
He would've waited to post it  until Sophie was in line to get nothing.
Well, for what it's worth,  Sophie doesn't think her brother's guilty, either.
Did she have a more likely suspect?
Mostly, she was trying to wrap her head around the things  that we found at Sammy's house, but when I told her  the video was uploaded at a coffee shop in New Brunswick,  that definitely meant something to her.
So, do you want to talk  about what happened at the construction site?
Actually, Watson, I need to succumb  to another symptom of my condition.
I'm tired.
I have to go to sleep.
[phone ringing]
Hey.
BELL: I'm afraid I'm not calling with good news.
What's wrong?
It's Sophie Bishop.
She's dead.
Detectives from the 116 notified the next of kin  a little while ago.
Her husband said  she got a call around 5:00 that seemed to rattle her.
She grabbed her car keys, ran out the door.
Wouldn't tell him where she was going.
This is her phone.
CSU found it in her car over there.
[garbled radio transmission]
The call she got-- it's from the same number  that called me and Sherlock yesterday.
I noticed.
Got to think whoever tried to bribe you  convinced her to come out here for some sort of meeting.
Either things went south,  or he was planning to k*ll her all along.
Maybe.
You got another theory?
Yeah.
We do.
[sirens blaring]
This is so ridiculous.
Why would you think I k*lled Sophie?
I idolized her.
Well, you did seem  like a loving couple the other day.
Perhaps at one point, you did love her.
But love's hold can wane, can't it?
Much more reliable motivator is $60 million.
GREGSON: As in the $60 million  buyout you and your wife received from her family trust.
So you think I k*lled Sophie for the money.
We think you did more than that.
You stole the sex tape  starring your wife and Sammy Olivetti, and you leaked it  in order to trigger the buyout.
GREGSON: You're the one who bribed Mr.
Holmes  to stop investigating, am I right?
I don't know anything about any bribe.
According to your cell phone records,  you've been in regular contact with a divorce attorney  the last couple of months.
HOLMES: Safe to assume  it wouldn't have worked out well for you financially  if you'd have left the marriage as it was.
But with Sophie $60 million richer before the divorce,  you'd get a nice soft landing, wouldn't you?
GREGSON: The sex tape was uploaded from a coffee shop  in New Brunswick three weeks ago.
We talked to your secretary.
She said you had been looking  at an investment property down there.
Now, according to the E-Z Pass records,  you were there the day the video was loaded.
When my partner mentioned New Brunswick  to your wife, it meant something to her.
Would I be right in saying that she knew  about your business dealings there?
GREGSON: What happened?
She realized what  you had done, and she confronted you,  threatened to go to the police, so you strangled her?
HOLMES: From there, the scenario is easy enough to construct.
You dialed her using the same burner phone  you used to contact me, thereby supporting the story  that you planned to tell the police:  that she'd received a call before rushing out.
A call that they would recognize  as coming from the phantom briber.
You then drove her body, using her car,  to the spot where they were found,  and then you made your own way home.
Tell us what you did with Olivetti's body.
We'll relay your cooperation to the D.A.
and emphasize that we don't think  that the m*rder of your wife was premeditated.
You're right...
that I leaked the video.
But that is all you are right about.
I had nothing to do with Sammy's m*rder,  and I sure as hell didn't k*ll my wife.
Sophie was in on it, okay?
We planned to leak the video together to get the $60 million.
The money she was getting annually wasn't cutting it.
I already told you-- I only knew the video existed  because she told me about it.
GREGSON: Pretty convenient story  now that Sophie's not around to argue.
Maybe so...
but it's the truth.
You guys want to arrest me...
go ahead.
If I'm right, the worst I'm looking at is a burglary charge  for when I stole the video,  and maybe a civil suit from the Bishops.
I'm pretty sure my lawyer will have me out by lunch.
[door opens]
[door closes]
Hey.
Marcus and I just talked to the lawyer  who manages the Bishop family trust.
You were right.
If Ryan had just filed for divorce,  he would not be entitled to any future share.
But with the payout already made and Sophie dead,  he gets to keep the $60 million.
Unless we can prove that he k*lled her.
Is everything okay?
I can't remember why I entered this room.
Uh, uh, I was downstairs in your office,  looking at a map, trying to determine  where Hayes might have disposed of Olivetti's body, and, um...
I was also thinking  we need to bring someone in to repair the guest room.
Which of those thoughts impelled me up the stairs?
Your guess is as good as mine.
Might have even solved the case.
We'll never know now, will we?
Well, we all walk into rooms sometimes and forget why.
It happens to everyone.
Not to me it doesn't.
[chuckles]
You praised me yesterday for taking this all so well.
I-I'm really not.
That's okay.
I know how scary this is.
See, when I first began going in for tests,  I-I did my own research as to the...
the diagnoses I might ultimately hear.
I separated them into two categories:  something that would k*ll me quickly--  an aggressive cancer or something like that--  and a condition which might permanently hinder  my cognitive abilities.
Between those two options,  I hoped for a quick death.
A man approached me  at a meeting yesterday.
Apparently,  I-I helped him once when I described...
[chuckles]
how integral my work was to maintaining my sobriety.
When all's said and done,  it's entirely possible I'm going to be unfit  to continue that work.
That rattles me.
The doctor said the damage wasn't permanent.
He said that you needed a regimen for your recovery.
Yeah, from-from brain trauma.
Wh-What about my other recovery?
If I can no longer function as a detective,  I-I'm just not sure I can stay sober.
And if I can't stay sober,  how's my brain gonna heal?
Anyway, we, uh...
we need to bring someone in to fix the guest room.
Good night, Watson.
Hey.
Heard you were in here.
You heard right.
I didn't visit the scene  where Sophie Bishop's body was found.
I was wondering what evidence  I might have spotted if I had.
Well, if it makes you feel any better,  lots of cops checked it out.
CSU, Joan, me.
You were looking for me?
Yeah.
A woman just showed up at the front desk.
Says she knows who k*lled Sophie Bishop and Sammy Olivetti.
She thinks she's next.
I need police protection.
My life is in danger.
Well, let's start at the beginning, okay?
You said you and Ms.
Bishop were friends?
Sort of.
Do you know what Eskimo sisters are?
Two women who've had sexual relations with the same man  but remain on good terms.
Uh, would I be correct in thinking  that the man that you and Ms.
Bishop shared  was Sammy Olivetti?
Me and Sammy started hooking up about a year  after he and Sophie broke up.
We were together for a few months and then we weren't.
And then we were on again.
Then we were permanently off.
After that, he started seeing this psycho b*tch  named Luna.
They were together for almost a year...
You know, I was recently reminded  of our fleeting mortality,  so I'm wondering if you're approaching a point.
You know, you could be nice to me.
I'm here in distress.
You were saying.
Luna.
When the tape of Sammy and Sophie came out,  Luna lost her mind.
She was jealous.
Mm-hmm.
See, she and Sammy had made a tape, too.
Only he told her he had never done that with anyone else.
So she sent Sophie a bunch of text messages.
She said she hoped they both would die.
And they did.
Okay.
So what makes you think you'd be next?
Because...
I made a tape with Sammy, too.
You didn't make a sex tape with Sammy Olivetti, did you?
Nope.
Here's the one  of me and Sammy.
In case you need it as, like, evidence.
Actually, Ms.
Marshall, I don't think  that'll be necessary.
On the contrary,  this is most helpful.
Thank you very much.
Did he just steal my phone?
[moaning]
Yes.
[moaning]
[phone chimes]
[moaning continues]
Why are you watching a sex tape?
Sammy.
Sammy.
At the moment, purely as an education.
Sammy was not without his skills,  and far be it from me to think I know everything.
That is Sammy Olivetti, but that is not Sophie.
How many sex tapes did this guy make?
Quite a few, I've learned.
But this one was all it took.
All it took to do what?
To inspire me to pay another visit to Sammy's home.
And we now have everything we need to prove  that Ryan Hayes is a k*ller.
Uh, Captain, uh,  you didn't bring us down here to watch movies, did you?
As a matter of fact, we did.
May I ask why?
Cinematic appreciation.
For a filmmaker who was taken from us too soon  but whose body of work rivals that  of the form's greatest auteurs.
In volume, at least.
Originality, not so much.
Have a seat, please.
WATSON: It was brought to our attention that the sex tape  Sammy Olivetti made with Sophie wasn't the only one.
A woman named Bethany Marshall gave us  a video that he made with her  about a year after the one he made with Sophie.
She also brought to our attention  the existence of other tapes.
Turns out Sammy made a lot of sex tapes.
It was his thing.
RYAN: Okay.
I don't know what kind of sick fun  you're having,  but I'm not gonna sit here and watch a sex tape  of my wife's ex-boyfriend.
Mr.
Olivetti does play a part in the video that you're about  to see, but it's not a sex tape.
It's a snuff film.
See, Mr.
Holmes noticed that  Bethany's tape was different from Sophie's  in that it didn't start with Sammy setting up the camera.
HOLMES: Rather, it starts with  Sammy and Bethany making their way from his front door  to the couch.
His camera had already been activated.
But how?
And by whom?
Now, given his fondness for sex tapes, I thought perhaps  he'd had a system installed expressly for this purpose.
I remembered there was a deadbolt on his front door,  which, apparently, he rarely used.
So I checked it.
And the deadbolt was Sammy's secret switch,  which he activated only when he brought home  an intended subject for one of his videos.
Now, obviously, no woman would question  Sammy locking his front door.
I mean, after all, they'd want their privacy.
Unfortunately for you, you also wanted your privacy  when you broke into Sammy's house to k*ll him.
So when you threw the deadbolt, without knowing it,  you turned on the camera.
GREGSON: You and your wife had met  with Sammy several times by then.
And since you didn't enter his house forcibly the second time,  we can only assume that you managed  to get your hands on a key.
HOLMES: Can't fault you for failing to stop the hidden  video system.
It was skillfully concealed.
I missed it.
WATSON: The one other difference between  Sophie's video and Bethany's  was that Bethany's was shot in Sammy's living room.
Which I'm sure you recognize, 'cause it's where you did  some of your best work.
SAMMY: What the hell?
Maybe now you'd like to tell us what you did with Sammy's body?
Hey.
Uh, this is Ramon.
He specializes in restoring brownstones and old woodwork.
Ramon.
Hey.
I'm gonna go to my truck,  bring in some stain samples for you to look at,  and we'll get that order written up.
Sound good?
That sounds great.
Thanks.
So, I was thinking, since we're doing work down here,  maybe we can make that into a meditation room also and--  I don't know-- maybe bring in a treadmill.
Well, mindfulness and aerobic exercise have proven  to, uh, speed up the recovery for PCS.
There's a lot of other things you can try in here, too.
You've done a lot of research.
Well, I know that your doctor's putting together a plan,  but he doesn't know how hard you're gonna push yourself.
"Pushing yourself"-- that does sound like me.
You're not gonna go through this alone, okay?
All right, I'm gonna finish up with Ramon.
♪ I want to live  ♪ Before I die  ♪ Free the sky's thunder  ♪ Inside my chest  ♪ Now and again  ♪ I wonder why  Hello?
Hello, Michael?
It's Sherlock Holmes.
[winded]: Sherlock.
Hey.
What's going on?
Did I catch you at a bad time?
You sound winded.
No.
Just out for a walk.
Well, I, uh...
I appreciated what you said the other day  about, um, how you found strength  in focusing on your work, and...
you said to call if I ever, you know, needed to talk.
So, um...
Well, I was thinking of going to a meeting.
I wondered if you'd like to join.
Yeah.
I just might need a little time to get there,  but, um, how's St.
Olaf's at 4:00?
Excellent.
St.
Olaf's at 4:00.
See you then.
♪ Song about the seasons' change ♪  ♪ Born and dead  ♪ Born again  ♪ Some beast will find you  ♪ By name.